complex_word	simple_word	POS	complex_lemma	simple_lemma	complex_index	simple_index	complex_sentence	simple_sentence
battle	war	NN	battle	war	13	13	american women will soon be free to fight on the front lines of battle and they will go with the public 's support .	american women will soon be able to fight on the front lines of war .
open	start	VB	open	start	6	6	the pentagon said it expects to open up many jobs to women this year , but that commanders will have until 2016 to ask for exceptions .	the military said it expects to start opening up many jobs to women as early as this year .
start	open	VB	start	open	9	6	the military said many of the banned jobs will start opening up this year .	many of the banned jobs will open up to women this year .
valor	bravery	NN	valor	bravery	18	15	major mary jennings hegar was awarded the purple heart for her injuries and another medal for heroism and valor after her helicopter was shot down in afghanistan .	the air force awarded hegar the purple heart for her injuries and another medal for bravery and heroism .
role	part	NN	role	part	20	8	because the air force did not consider her experience as combat , she was prevented from competing for a combat-leadership role .	because the air force did not consider her part of a combat unit , she could not get one .
sort	kind	NN	sort	kind	11	2	soldiers who drive fuel trucks , provide medical support or even sort mail can come under fire in modern warfare .	in this kind of modern warfare , soldiers doing any kind of job can come under fire .
nearly	almost	RB	nearly	almost	0	0	nearly half of those surveyed said the decision would make no difference in the effectiveness of the military .	almost half said the decision would make no difference .
survey	poll	NN	survey	poll	4	7	only 15 percent of survey respondents said it would make military effectiveness worse .	twenty-nine percent of the people in the poll said allowing women in combat would improve the military .
argue	say	VBP	argue	say	1	4	advocates argue that including more women will help end harassment and discrimination of female troops that has plagued military culture .	but the female troops say that including more women will lead to better behavior in the military .
slaying	murder	NN	slaying	murder	15	15	she wondered what might have been different for the two young men charged with her slaying .	obama wondered what might have been different for the two young men charged with her murder .
slaying	killing	NN	slaying	killing	15	15	she wondered what might have been different for the two young men charged with her slaying .	obama wondered what might have been different for the two young men charged with her killing .
murder	killing	NN	murder	killing	15	15	obama wondered what might have been different for the two young men charged with her murder .	obama wondered what might have been different for the two young men charged with her killing .
luncheon	lunch	NN	luncheon	lunch	7	1	obama was the keynote speaker at the luncheon , set up by emanuel to garner support for a initiative called working together for safer communities , brighter futures .	the lunch was set up by the mayor to gather support for a plan called working together for safer communities , brighter futures .
former	past	JJ	former	past	17	8	in choosing harper high school for the visit , the white house noted that 29 current or former students there had been shot in the last year .	the white house noted that 29 current or past harper high school students had been shot in the last year .
address	speak	VB	address	speak	7	7	some expressed disappointment that she did not address the entire student body .	some were disappointed that she did not speak to the whole student body .
entire	whole	JJ	entire	whole	9	10	some expressed disappointment that she did not address the entire student body .	some were disappointed that she did not speak to the whole student body .
good	happy	JJ	good	happy	11	9	donghui village , china the pig farmer was not in a good mood .	donghui village , china the pig farmer was not happy .
nauseating	sickening	JJ	nauseating	sickening	8	3	the results were as spectacular as they were nauseating : more than 14,000 pig corpses were found floating in the huangpu river and its tributaries last month .	the results were sickening .
lack	need	NN	lack	need	22	15	in donghui , a speck on the map to the southwest of shanghai in neighboring zhejiang province , farmers spoke of a lack of money and information .	in donghui , southwest of shanghai in neighboring zhejiang province , farmers spoke of their need for money and information .
evident	clear	JJ	evident	clear	19	19	once the pigs began showing up in the huangpu river , the public 's wariness about official explanations became evident .	once the pigs began showing up in the huangpu river , the public 's doubts about official explanations became clear .
detention	prison	NN	detention	prison	8	9	it was not clear how pan , in detention before the floating pigs came to light , could answer with such certainty .	but it was not clear how pan , in prison before the floating pigs came to light , could answer with such certainty .
explanation	reason	NN	explanation	reason	8	8	in zhulin , pan 's relatives offered an explanation for why he 'd gotten mixed up in that line of work .	in zhulin , pan 's relatives had a reason for why he had gotten mixed up in that line of work .
gauze	bandage	NN	gauze	bandage	15	3	his wife , hang yaqin , hiked up her t-shirt , unwrapped a strap of gauze and pointed to a tube .	she unwrapped a bandage and pointed to a tube .
find	show	VB	find	show	12	3	they also need to know how to read a tape measure and find the density of a block of foam -lrb- mass divided by volume -rrb- .	they also must show they know how to read a tape measure .
industry	business	NN	industry	business	19	12	he also sits on an aerospace workforce training committee and said that most other washington state suppliers in his industry have been seeing the same problem .	he said that most other washington state suppliers in his line of business have been seeing the same problem .
grasp	understand	VB	grasp	understand	16	5	they 're looking for ways to make math relate to the real world so students will grasp why it 's necessary and stick with it .	that way , students will understand why math matters .
collaboration	work	NN	collaboration	work	13	14	it has developed a middle school math curriculum that uses projects and encourages collaboration .	it has developed a middle school math curriculum that uses projects and encourages group work .
middle	middle-school	JJ	middle	middle-school	4	5	it has developed a middle school math curriculum that uses projects and encourages collaboration .	the center has developed a middle-school math program that uses projects and encourages group work .
curriculum	program	NN	curriculum	program	7	7	it has developed a middle school math curriculum that uses projects and encourages collaboration .	the center has developed a middle-school math program that uses projects and encourages group work .
tunneling	tunnel	NN	tunneling	tunnel	9	2	it is capable of sniffing out frozen carcasses and tunneling through five feet of snow to crack open bones and tear apart even frozen carrion .	it can tunnel through five feet of snow to crack open bones and tear apart even frozen meat .
enable	help	VBP	enable	help	2	2	semi-retractable claws enable them to climb trees and scramble up and down rocky slopes .	their claws help them climb trees and scramble up and down rocky slopes .
instance	example	NN	instance	example	4	4	highway 2 , for instance , is a travel corridor wolverines will need to cross if they are to make it as far south as mount rainier .	highway 2 , for example , is a travel corridor wolverines will need to cross if they are to make it as far south as mount rainier .
example	instance	NN	example	instance	4	4	highway 2 , for example , is a travel corridor wolverines will need to cross if they are to make it as far south as mount rainier .	highway 2 , for instance , is a travel corridor wolverines will need to cross if they are to make it as far south as mount rainier .
make	get	VB	make	get	19	11	highway 2 , for instance , is a travel corridor wolverines will need to cross if they are to make it as far south as mount rainier .	for instance , wolverines will need to cross highway 2 to get as far south as mount rainier .
perhaps	maybe	RB	perhaps	maybe	1	1	dozens perhaps hundreds of horses and other large animals have been abandoned or neglected with no consequences for the owners , according to several horse rescuers .	dozens maybe hundreds of horses and other large animals have been abandoned or neglected .
organization	group	NN	organization	group	13	13	he estimates that 35 to 50 abandoned horses are running free near his organization 's base in beecher , illinois .	he estimates that 35 to 50 abandoned horses are running free near his group 's farm in beecher , illinois .
number	lot	NN	number	lot	20	11	several county animal control departments in the chicago area say that they have tried to cope with an unusually high number of horse abandonment cases .	several animal control departments in illinois say they are getting a lot of calls about horse abandonment .
issue	give	VB	issue	give	8	8	county animal control departments have the authority to issue citations and work with owners on improving care .	county animal control departments have the power to give fines and work with owners on improving care .
authority	power	NN	authority	power	6	6	county animal control departments have the authority to issue citations and work with owners on improving care .	county animal control departments have the power to give fines and work with owners on improving care .
give	issue	VB	give	issue	8	8	county animal control departments have the power to give fines and work with owners on improving care .	county animal control departments have the power to issue fines and work with owners on improving care .
acknowledge	admit	VBP	acknowledge	admit	27	3	budget cuts in the last six years , however , have made it a challenge to handle humane care calls , state and local animal welfare officials acknowledge .	animal welfare officials admit it is a challenge to handle all the neglect calls .
surgery	operation	NN	surgery	operation	8	9	ten days later , he had a secret surgery to help him slim down .	ten days later , he had a secret weight-loss operation .
well	also	RB	well	also	12	2	many say they are fleeing violence from gangs and drug cartels as well as abuse , sometimes by their own family members .	they are also trying to get away from abuse , sometimes by their own family members .
increase	rise	NN	increase	rise	5	5	whatever the reason , the increase has been so dramatic that it caught the government and advocates by surprise .	whatever the reason , the rise has been huge .
labyrinth	maze	NN	labyrinth	maze	15	15	providing temporary shelter and support services to these children while their cases work through the labyrinth of federal immigration and legal systems is n't cheap .	providing temporary shelter and support services to these children while their cases work through the maze of immigration and legal systems is not cheap .
primarily	mostly	RB	primarily	mostly	19	20	the temporary shelters are now gone , replaced with an additional 1,300 beds in licensed homes and facilities , primarily in texas .	the temporary shelters are now gone , replaced with an additional 1,300 beds in licensed homes and other buildings , mostly in texas .
education	schooling	NN	education	schooling	0	6	education and medical services are provided .	they get medical services and some schooling .
receive	get	VBP	receive	get	1	1	they receive education and medical services .	they get medical services and some schooling .
ultimately	finally	RB	ultimately	finally	16	10	orr data show that more than 65 percent of these children from 2008 to 2010 were ultimately placed with sponsors living in the united states .	almost two-thirds of these children from 2008 to 2010 were finally placed with sponsors living in the united states .
ensure	make	VB	ensure	make	3	3	the government must ensure that the family members or family friends can take care of these children properly and that the home is suitable .	they need to make sure that the family members or friends can take care of the children and that the home is suitable .
home	family	NN	home	family	20	8	they need to make sure that the family members or friends can take care of the children and that the home is suitable .	the government needs to make sure that the family members or family friends can take care of the children .
greater	wider	JJR	greater	wider	13	13	it is twice as fast as the helicopter it replaces , has substantially greater range , and can carry more cargo and more than twice as many troops .	it is twice as fast as the helicopter it replaces and has much wider range .
maintain	keep	VB	maintain	keep	6	6	the marines are learning how to maintain it in a harsh environment .	the marines are learning how to keep it flying in a harsh environment .
massive	huge	JJ	massive	huge	15	15	they picked up the wounded man and flew another 75 miles or so to the massive coalition base in kandahar .	they picked up the wounded man and flew another 75 miles or so to the huge military base in kandahar .
model	type	NN	model	type	25	24	that , mccain said , more than doubled the cost per hour of flight , compared with about $ 4,600 for the ch-46 , a model of helicopter .	that more than doubled the cost per hour of flight , he said , compared with about $ 4,600 for the ch-46 , a type of helicopter .
pledge	promise	NN	pledge	promise	1	1	his pledge raises many questions , some easier to answer than others .	his promise raises many questions , some easier to answer than others .
remote	faraway	JJ	remote	faraway	12	6	a : pentagon officials considered a variety of pacific islands and other remote locations for holding men detained after the sept .	a : the military considered many faraway locations for holding men after the sept .
monitor	watch	VB	monitor	watch	9	9	but in april , detainees covered cameras used to monitor them .	but in april , detainees covered cameras used to watch over them .
get	take	VB	get	take	17	12	the supreme court ruled in a 2008 decision that guantanamo detainees had the same constitutional right to get their day in court as prisoners in the united states .	the supreme court ruled in a 2008 decision that the detainees could take their case to court , just like prisoners in the united states .
decision	case	NN	decision	case	7	13	the supreme court ruled in a 2008 decision that guantanamo detainees had the same constitutional right to file a habeas corpus petition as prisoners in the united states .	the supreme court ruled in a 2008 that the detainees could take their case to court , just like prisoners in the united states .
hold	keep	VB	hold	keep	4	8	the average cost to hold a prisoner in the united states is about $ 30,000 per year .	it costs about $ 30,000 a year to keep someone at a regular prison in the united states .
prisoner	prison	NN	prisoner	prison	6	13	the average cost to hold a prisoner in the united states is about $ 30,000 per year .	it costs about $ 30,000 a year to keep someone at a regular prison in the united states .
transfer	move	VB	transfer	move	15	13	a : since 2009 , congress has made it difficult for the obama administration to transfer men out of guantanamo .	a : since 2009 , congress has made it hard for obama to move men out of guantanamo .
difficult	hard	JJ	difficult	hard	9	9	a : since 2009 , congress has made it difficult for the obama administration to transfer men out of guantanamo .	a : since 2009 , congress has made it hard for obama to move men out of guantanamo .
act	law	NN	act	law	4	1	the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2013 prohibits using any military funds to transfer detainees to the united states .	one law prohibits using military funds to transfer detainees to the united states .
vehicle	automobile	NN	vehicle	automobile	19	10	at a recent senate hearing , lawmakers struggled to fully understand the risks involved with these latest advancements in vehicle technology .	recently , senators met to discuss the latest advances in automobile technology .
recent	new	JJ	recent	new	2	10	at a recent senate hearing , lawmakers struggled to fully understand the risks involved with these latest advancements in vehicle technology .	many struggled to fully understand the risks involved with the new vehicles .
people	humans	NNS	people	human	11	11	proponents of self-driving technology say computers can navigate roads better than people , who are much more error-prone than machines are .	people who support self-driving technology say computers can drive better than humans .
slow	slow-moving	JJ	slow	slow-moving	17	17	this technology allows a driver to push a button to let the car make its way through slow moving traffic by itself .	this technology allows a driver to push a button to let the car find its way in slow-moving traffic by itself .
business	company	NN	business	company	1	1	the business also has an office in joplin , missouri , where it worked with the school district to build 16 safe rooms in schools across the city .	the company also has an office in joplin , missouri , where it built 16 safe rooms in schools across the city .
company	business	NN	company	business	1	1	the company also has an office in joplin , missouri , where it built 16 safe rooms in schools across the city .	the business also has an office in joplin , missouri , where it built 16 safe rooms .
rise	jump	NN	rise	jump	9	9	whenever there 's a tornado , erwin sees a rise in interest .	whenever there 's a tornado , erwin sees a jump in interest .
get	become	VBP	get	become	7	7	whenever there 's a tornado , people get interested in erwin 's company .	whenever there is a tornado , people become interested in erwin 's company .
national	nationwide	JJ	national	nationwide	2	11	on a national level , hurricane katrina in 2005 and tornadoes in recent years are behind a boom in safe rooms .	hurricane katrina in 2005 and tornadoes in recent years triggered a nationwide boom in safe rooms .
lumber	wood	NN	lumber	wood	12	12	any window glass must be able to withstand a 2-by-4 piece of lumber shot at it from a cannon .	any window glass must be able to withstand getting hit by flying wood .
state	country	NN	state	country	21	12	nearly all of the tornado safe rooms are being built in rural areas , mostly in the southern part of the state .	nearly all of the tornado safe rooms are being built in the country .
structure	building	NN	structure	building	5	5	davidson hall is a two-story structure housing the biology , chemistry , and health and sciences programs .	davidson hall is a two-story building .
housing	home	NN	housing	home	6	2	davidson hall is a two-story structure housing the biology , chemistry , and health and sciences programs .	it is home to the college 's biology , chemistry , and health and sciences programs .
room	space	NN	room	space	3	3	there 's enough room inside for 1,615 people - more than the town 's population .	there 's enough space for 1,615 people more than the town 's population .
campus	school	NN	campus	school	5	5	it would be on a campus used by children in preschool through 12th grade .	it would be at a school used by children in preschool through 12th grade .
orange-red	orange	JJ	orange-red	orange	4	8	the torpedo-shaped trout with orange-red cheeks and sparkling rose-pink stripes can grow as large as salmon .	the trout is shaped like a torpedo with orange cheeks and pink stripes .
rose-pink	pink	JJ	rose-pink	pink	8	11	the torpedo-shaped trout with orange-red cheeks and sparkling rose-pink stripes can grow as large as salmon .	the trout is shaped like a torpedo with orange cheeks and pink stripes .
dramatically	sharply	RB	dramatically	sharply	13	10	the surge of snowmelt that once gushed into pyramid lake each spring shrank dramatically .	snowmelt that once gushed into pyramid lake each spring shrank sharply .
government	state	NN	government	state	3	4	duff was a government biologist at the time searching for a trout native to the great salt lake region : the bonneville cutthroat .	duff was a utah state biologist at the time .
ensure	guarantee	VB	ensure	guarantee	9	6	the fish 's discovery , though , did not ensure its recovery .	the fish 's discovery did not guarantee its recovery , though .
guarantee	ensure	VB	guarantee	ensure	6	7	the fish 's discovery did not guarantee its recovery , though .	but the fish 's discovery did not ensure its recovery .
support	help	NN	support	help	3	3	with little official support , he built a rustic fish hatchery at the base of morrison creek on a small ranch owned by a fish-friendly landowner .	with little official help , he built a small fish hatchery at the base of morrison creek on a ranch owned by a fish-friendly landowner .
seldom	rarely	RB	seldom	rarely	3	3	those that did seldom survived .	those that did rarely survived .
legislation	law	NN	legislation	law	21	16	farmers across the country warn that even more imported food will be on store shelves if congress fails to pass immigration legislation .	even more could come from outside the united states if congress fails to pass an immigration law that farmers are demanding .
agriculture	farm	NN	agriculture	farm	2	6	addressing the agriculture labor shortages has been one of the less controversial issues in the immigration debate taking place on capitol hill .	figuring out what to do about farm labor shortages has been one of the less controversial issues in the immigration debate in washington .
agriculture	farming	NN	agriculture	farming	7	8	many republicans and democrats agree that the agriculture industry is suffering because of a broken immigration system .	many lawmakers agree that the immigration system hurts farming .
farm	farming	NN	farm	farming	7	8	many republicans and democrats agree that the farm industry is suffering because of a broken immigration system .	many lawmakers agree that the immigration system hurts farming .
path	way	NN	path	way	9	8	a proposal in the senate that would create a path to citizenship for the estimated 11 million people living in the united states illegally .	a plan in the senate would create a way for people living in the united states illegally to become citizens .
apply	ask	VB	apply	ask	7	4	after five years , farm workers could apply for permanent residency and eventually citizenship .	farm workers could also ask to live here for good after five years .
farmer	farm	NN	farmer	farm	9	6	charles conner , president of the national council of farmer cooperatives said the country could n't keep growing as much food as it does without its foreign-born workers .	charles conner , president of a farm trade group , said the country could n't keep growing as much food as it does without foreign-born workers .
association	group	NN	association	group	4	4	lee wicker , the association 's deputy director , estimates his members employ about 7,500 workers under the program .	lee wicker is the group 's assistant director .
instance	case	NN	instance	case	19	18	just because a military tactic is legal , does n't mean '' it is wise or moral in every instance , '' obama said .	just because something is legal , does n't mean '' it is wise or moral '' in every case , obama said .
lethal	deadly	JJ	lethal	deadly	12	14	at the same time , obama reserved the right to order covert lethal action anywhere the administration finds a threat from al-qaida .	at the same time , the president reserved the right to order secret , deadly action anywhere the administration finds a threat from al-qaida .
appear	seem	VB	appear	seem	10	9	but the items that fogle carried with him did n't appear to be genuine tools of a cia spy .	but the things fogle carried with him did not seem to be the tools of a cia spy .
official	officer	NN	official	officer	10	10	the wording of the letter intended to recruit the russian official sounded unreal to o ' neill .	the wording of the letter intended to recruit the russian officer sounded unreal to o ` neill .
officer	official	NN	officer	official	10	10	the wording of the letter intended to recruit the russian officer sounded unreal to o ` neill .	the wording of the letter intended to recruit the russian official sounded fake to o ` neill .
alleged	supposed	JJ	alleged	supposed	11	10	fogle is widely described as extremely smart , which makes his alleged missteps even harder to understand .	fogle is described as very smart , which make his supposed missteps hard to understand .
doubt	question	NN	doubt	question	5	5	but his future is in doubt .	but his future is in question .
fundamental	basic	JJ	fundamental	basic	7	4	congress needs to correct the service 's fundamental problem a lack of flexibility and authority over itself , carper has said .	congress needs to correct basic problems , like a lack of flexibility , they say .
determine	decide	VB	determine	decide	8	16	testers also measure respiration and blood pressure to determine whether someone is lying , but many see the sweat measurement as a really true sign of lying .	the people who give the tests also look at levels of breathing and blood pressure to decide whether someone is lying .
respiration	breathing	NN	respiration	breathing	3	11	testers also measure respiration and blood pressure to determine whether someone is lying , but many see the sweat measurement as a really true sign of lying .	the people who give the tests also look at levels of breathing and blood pressure to decide whether someone is lying .
see	give	VBP	see	give	16	3	testers also measure respiration and blood pressure to determine whether someone is lying , but many see the sweat measurement as a really true sign of lying .	the people who give the tests also look at levels of breathing and blood pressure to decide whether someone is lying .
see	look	VBP	see	look	16	7	testers also measure respiration and blood pressure to determine whether someone is lying , but many see the sweat measurement as a really true sign of lying .	the people who administer the tests also look at levels of breathing and blood pressure to decide whether someone is lying .
give	administer	VBP	give	administer	3	3	the people who give the tests also look at levels of breathing and blood pressure to decide whether someone is lying .	the people who administer the tests also look at levels of breathing and blood pressure to decide whether someone is lying .
administer	give	VBP	administer	give	3	3	the people who administer the tests also look at levels of breathing and blood pressure to decide whether someone is lying .	the people who give the tests look at breathing and blood pressure to decide whether someone is lying .
rely	use	VB	rely	use	7	7	other police departments say they do not rely entirely on a polygraph test to determine whether they should hire someone .	other police departments say they do not use just the tests to decide if they should hire someone .
demonstrate	show	VBP	demonstrate	show	4	1	documents obtained by mcclatchy demonstrate that the bureau is rejecting people even as the applicants insist they 've never done anything wrong .	documents show that the bureau is rejecting people even as the applicants insist they have never done anything wrong .
show	demonstrate	VBP	show	demonstrate	1	4	documents show that the bureau is rejecting people even as the applicants insist they have never done anything wrong .	documents obtained by mcclatchy demonstrate that the bureau is rejecting people even as the applicants insist they have never done anything wrong .
additional	extra	JJ	additional	extra	10	10	in a normal summer , the park service hires an additional 10,000 people to handle the larger crowds .	in a normal summer , the park service hires an extra 10,000 people to handle the larger crowds .
reduce	cut	VB	reduce	cut	6	6	but this year , it will reduce that number by 1,000 .	but this year , it will cut that number by 1,000 .
smaller	fewer	JJR	smaller	fewer	1	0	the smaller workforce will result in less frequent mowing , sand-covered bike paths , messier restrooms and fewer interpretive programs .	fewer workers means less frequent mowing , sand-covered bike paths , messier restrooms and fewer tours .
maintenance	upkeep	NN	maintenance	upkeep	14	13	even with the private help , visitors to california 's state parks will find maintenance reductions and shortened operating hours .	even with the donations , california 's state parks must cut down on upkeep such as repairs and mowing .
vacant	unfilled	JJ	vacant	unfilled	17	17	the mammoth cave national park in kentucky has absorbed a $ 324,000 cut by leaving four jobs vacant , including the park electrician .	the mammoth cave national park in kentucky has absorbed a $ 324,000 cut by leaving four jobs unfilled .
rate	pace	NN	rate	pace	13	12	a new study finds frogs , toads and salamanders disappearing at an alarming rate across the united states .	baltimore frogs , toads and salamanders are disappearing at a surprisingly fast pace across the united states , a new study shows .
report	say	VBP	report	say	1	1	scientists report that environmentally sensitive amphibians are dying out in more places and more quickly than previously thought .	scientists say that some amphibians are dying out in more places and faster than previously thought .
time	period	NN	time	period	16	16	the new study is valuable because it made repeated checks over many locations for a long time .	the new study is valuable because it made repeated checks over many locations for a long period .
salinity	salt	NN	salinity	salt	2	3	changes in salinity can kill the freshwater aquatic insects on which salamanders and frogs feed .	changes in the salt level can kill the freshwater aquatic insects on which salamanders and frogs feed .
country	homeland	NN	country	homeland	19	17	there is a constant murmur of stories about the civil war that forced the residents to flee their home country in the past year .	there is a constant murmur of stories about the civil war that forced syrians to flee their homeland in the past year .
rather	instead	RB	rather	instead	0	0	rather , he points to a sign in front of the mosque behind him .	instead , he points to a sign in front of the mosque behind him .
scour	search	VBP	scour	search	4	4	rich persian gulf men scour the camps to buy brides living in tents .	rich persian gulf men search the camps to buy brides living in tents .
technique	method	NN	technique	method	1	1	the technique is as simple as it is risky .	the method is as simple as it is risky .
space	area	NN	space	area	9	4	that is more than 780 square miles - more space than los angeles and new york combined .	that is a larger area than los angeles and new york combined .
typically	usually	RB	typically	usually	0	6	typically , dry-farmed fruit grows much smaller than fruit from irrigated farms , and the yield is also smaller .	the fruit from dry farms is usually much smaller than fruit from irrigated farms .
dry-farmed	dry	JJ	dry-farmed	dry	2	3	typically , dry-farmed fruit grows much smaller than fruit from irrigated farms , and the yield is also smaller .	the fruit from dry farms is usually much smaller than fruit from irrigated farms .
rainwater	rain	NN	rainwater	rain	7	10	there is no irrigation here , only rainwater in this area , '' said durst , a fifth-generation farmer .	durst 's farm gets between 8 and 30 inches of rain each year .
keep	preserve	VB	keep	preserve	1	1	to keep the rainwater from evaporating or running off , durst uses the residue from past crops to trap moisture .	to preserve the rainwater , durst uses the residue from past crops to trap moisture .
eschew	avoid	VBP	eschew	avoid	6	4	he said he understands why farmers eschew dry farming , but believes irrigation comes with its own burdens .	he understands why farmers avoid dry farming .
short-term	short	JJ	short-term	short	5	8	while tornadoes can do vast short-term damage , hurricanes have an arsenal of ways to damage lives and property .	while tornadoes can do vast damage in a short time , hurricanes have many ways to damage lives and property .
vast	major	JJ	vast	major	4	3	while tornadoes can do vast short-term damage , hurricanes have an arsenal of ways to damage lives and property .	tornadoes can do major damage in a short time .
storm	hurricane	NN	storm	hurricane	5	2	heavy rains : a slow-moving storm can produce considerably more rainfall than a swifter , stronger one .	a slow-moving hurricane can produce considerably more rainfall than a swifter , stronger one .
considerably	much	RB	considerably	much	8	5	heavy rains : a slow-moving storm can produce considerably more rainfall than a swifter , stronger one .	a slow-moving hurricane can produce much more rainfall than a swifter , stronger one .
treacherous	dangerous	JJ	treacherous	dangerous	11	9	a storm surge is what forecasters consider a hurricane 's most treacherous aspect .	a storm surge is considered a hurricane 's most dangerous aspect .
especially	mostly	RB	especially	mostly	10	1	twisters typically form on the outer edges of hurricanes , especially in or ahead of the storm 's most powerful part its front right section .	they mostly form in or ahead of the storm 's most powerful part its front right section .
much	greatly	RB	much	greatly	15	6	demand for rhino horn has boomed in recent years , with criminal syndicates offering as much as $ 30,000 a pound for the horns .	demand for rhino horn has increased greatly in recent years .
dramatically	greatly	RB	dramatically	greatly	6	6	demand for rhino horn has increased dramatically in recent years , with criminal networks offering as much as $ 30,000 per pound for the horns .	demand for rhino horn has increased greatly in recent years .
anticipate	predict	VB	anticipate	predict	8	7	his team 's goal : use patterns to anticipate where poachers will be , and then quickly mobilize game wardens to intercept them .	they will use software to try to predict where the hunters will be .
combat	fight	VB	combat	fight	11	7	wildlife groups say they 're eager to deploy the technology to combat poachers .	wildlife groups also say they want to fight back against the hunters .
vast	huge	JJ	vast	huge	8	8	scientists have only begun to dig through its vast trove of data , where proof of another earth-like planet may be hiding .	scientists have only begun to dig through the huge amounts of data from kepler , where proof of another earth-like planet may be hiding .
survive	live	VB	survive	live	6	6	but scientists had hoped it would survive far longer .	but scientists had hoped it would live far longer .
bring	make	VB	bring	make	4	9	engineers will try to bring the failed devices back into service , or find other ways to salvage the spacecraft .	they will also try to find other ways to make the spacecraft work .
incident	event	NN	incident	event	11	11	lund , 49 , says he has no memory of the incident that got him fired : shoving and berating another flight attendant .	lund , 49 , says he has no memory of the event that got him fired last summer : shoving and insulting another flight attendant .
loss	lack	NN	loss	lack	9	9	he does research for the federal aviation administration on loss of sleep and fatigue .	he does research for the federal aviation administration on lack of sleep and fatigue .
aviation	flight	NN	aviation	flight	1	3	one aviation expert thinks the government should make flight attendant rest requirements more like those of pilots .	one expert thinks flight attendants and pilots should get similar rest .
ensure	secure	VB	ensure	secure	12	12	on short sleep , he said , he 'll sometimes fail to ensure that carry-ons are stowed in overhead bins .	on short sleep , he said , he 'll sometimes fail to secure carry-on bags .
acquire	buy	VB	acquire	buy	11	11	as live sports programming has become more expensive for networks to acquire , multimillion-dollar salaries for professional athletes and college coaches have increased as well .	as live sports programming has become more expensive for networks to buy , multimillion-dollar salaries for professional athletes and college coaches have increased as well .
programming	broadcast	NN	programming	broadcast	3	13	as live sports programming has become more expensive for networks to acquire , multimillion-dollar salaries for professional athletes and college coaches have increased as well .	huge salaries for professional athletes and college coaches have increased as well as broadcast fees .
regional	local	JJ	regional	local	24	21	last september , directv added a $ 3 monthly fee to the bills of new customers in markets where there is more than one regional sports channel .	directv added a $ 3 monthly fee to the bills of new customers in markets where there is more than one local sports channel .
real	real-time	JJ	real	real-time	13	3	and while skipping commercials is easy on a recorded program , sports is real reality tv that 's coveted by advertisers .	and sports is real-time tv that is sought by advertisers because it is harder to skip commercials .
combat	fight	NN	combat	fight	15	9	the spokane-based program for the past five years has helped 65 tribes across the country combat suicide , the second-biggest killer of native youth , after accidents .	native aspirations has helped 65 tribes across the country fight suicide for the past five years .
stop	prevent	VB	stop	prevent	17	10	it works with schools and parent groups to teach the warning signs of suicide and ways to stop it .	they learn the warning signs of suicide and ways to prevent it .
abuse	addiction	NN	abuse	addiction	15	3	poverty , isolation , lack of adequate resources to treat mental health problems , substance abuse and family turmoil are some of the reasons she listed .	drug and alcohol addiction and family problems have an effect , too , wagner said .
substance	drug	NN	substance	drug	14	0	poverty , isolation , lack of adequate resources to treat mental health problems , substance abuse and family turmoil are some of the reasons she listed .	drug and alcohol addiction and family problems have an effect , too , wagner said .
only	just	RB	only	just	3	3	today it covers only about 52 percent of the needed care .	today it covers just over half of the needed care .
health	mental-health	NN	health	mental-health	1	0	mental health accounts for more than a third of the unmet need , said erin bailey , director of the center for native american youth .	mental-health needs are going unmet , said erin bailey , director of the center for native american youth .
mental-health	health	NN	mental-health	health	0	3	mental-health needs are going unmet , said erin bailey , director of the center for native american youth .	many are mental health problems , said erin bailey , director of the center for native american youth .
story	tale	NN	story	tale	6	8	washington it began as an irresistible story : a flea market find in the west virginia panhandle of a tiny , long-forgotten painting by a french master .	washington it had the makings of a great tale : a long-forgotten painting by a famous french artist was found in a west virginia flea market .
virtually	nearly	RB	virtually	nearly	6	3	in her will , she left virtually all her artworks to the museum , which seems to have only added to the painting 's confusing history .	her will gave nearly all her artworks to the museum .
little	tiny	JJ	little	tiny	6	5	at its center is an appealing little painting by an immortal artist that was reportedly discovered in a box of knickknacks .	at its center is a tiny painting by a legendary artist that was reportedly found in a box of bargains .
fewer	lower	JJR	fewer	lower	7	9	for minority and low-income students , even fewer finish college .	and minority and low-income students finish college at a lower rate .
develop	create	VB	develop	create	8	9	in europe , businesses and educators not only develop the next generation of workers ; they also help young people become adults .	in europe , companies and teachers do not just create the next generation of workers .
trade	business	NN	trade	business	15	5	before coming to olympic to teach business , economics and math , he worked for trade associations , including the charlotte apparel mart .	he used to work for business groups and now links olympic to the business community .
plant	factory	NN	plant	factory	12	12	in january , bosch rexroth started hiring high school interns in the plant that makes manufacturing equipment .	in january , bosch rexroth started hiring high school interns in the factory that makes manufacturing equipment .
real	actual	JJ	real	actual	22	23	a school district may not be able to afford to create machine shops at high schools , but students can go to real workplaces .	a school district may not be able to afford to create machine shops at high schools , but students can go to the actual workplaces .
actual	real	JJ	actual	real	23	23	a school district may not be able to afford to create machine shops at high schools , but students can go to the actual workplaces .	a school district may not be able to afford to create machine shops at high schools , but students can go to the real workplaces instead .
suitable	right	JJ	suitable	right	3	3	after finding a suitable space rock orbiting our way , the spaceship might push , tug or harpoon the asteroid .	after finding the right space rock orbiting our way , the spaceship might push , tug or harpoon the asteroid .
harpoon	spear	NN	harpoon	spear	17	14	after finding a suitable space rock orbiting our way , the spaceship might push , tug or harpoon the asteroid .	after finding the right space rock , the spaceship might push , tug or spear the asteroid .
petite	little	JJ	petite	little	1	1	but petite ones say , the size of a dump truck might be practical to grab using unmanned spaceships , nasa says .	but little ones , the size of a dump truck , might be practical to grab using unmanned spaceships , nasa says .
useful	handy	JJ	useful	handy	7	7	but the technology developed '' could prove useful in diverting a larger , rogue asteroid , '' said tom jones .	but what scientists learn could come in handy one day , said tom jones .
rigorous	strict	JJ	rigorous	strict	4	4	but the rules are rigorous for these tours , including the one taken by beyonce and jay-z .	but the rules are strict for these tours , including the three-day one taken by beyonce and jay-z .
tour	trip	NN	tour	trip	7	10	beyonce and jay-z reportedly stuck to the tour , even as they celebrated their five-year anniversary .	beyonce and jay-z celebrated their fifth wedding anniversary on the trip .
embargo	ban	NN	embargo	ban	3	6	rubio and other embargo defenders say all these trips put money in the hands of a repressive castro regime .	rubio and other defenders of the ban say these trips give money to the cuban government .
permissible	acceptable	JJ	permissible	acceptable	23	17	as cuban-americans do now , visitors could book their trip through a charter airline and sign an affidavit to affirm they have a permissible purpose .	visitors could book their trip through a charter airline and sign a statement proving they have an acceptable purpose , just as cuban-americans do .
vital	major	JJ	vital	major	25	10	the center granted lila and her colleagues $ 60,000 to chose one fruit and one vegetable to test their new method of extracting and transplanting vital nutrients .	lila and her colleagues received a $ 60,000 grant from major food companies .
method	way	NN	method	way	20	9	the center granted lila and her colleagues $ 60,000 to chose one fruit and one vegetable to test their new method of extracting and transplanting vital nutrients .	they money will allow them to test their new way of pulling out and transplanting vital nutrients .
ready-to-eat	ready	JJ	ready-to-eat	ready	15	17	he wants to determine how the products will work as part of the army 's ready-to-eat -lrb- mre -rrb- program .	he wants to figure out if the products can be part of the army 's meal , ready to eat -lrb- mrs -rrb- meal program .
various	different	JJ	various	different	13	9	meanwhile , researchers at the plants for human health institute are experimenting with various foods that could be made with the infused flour .	meanwhile , researchers at the institute are experimenting with different foods that could be made with the healthier flour .
drink	beverage	NN	drink	beverage	17	13	in a recent clinical trial , student subjects from appalachian state university were asked to consume a drink containing blueberry and green tea phytochemical extracts for 17 days .	in a recent experiment , some students from appalachian state university drank a beverage containing blueberry and green tea phytochemical extracts for 17 days .
trial	experiment	NN	trial	experiment	4	3	in a recent clinical trial , student subjects from appalachian state university were asked to consume a drink containing blueberry and green tea phytochemical extracts for 17 days .	in a recent experiment , some students from appalachian state university drank a beverage containing blueberry and green tea phytochemical extracts for 17 days .
terror	fear	NN	terror	fear	12	9	he lamented that so many shows about sharks continue to evoke jaws-like terror rather than science .	so many shows about sharks continue to stir up fear of the animal , like the move '' jaws '' did , he complained .
particularly	especially	RB	particularly	especially	6	6	and the shortfin mako is a particularly difficult quarry because of its unusual speed .	and the shortfin mako is a especially hard to catch because of its unusual speed .
open-ocean	open	JJ	open-ocean	open	5	6	they tend to stay in open-ocean and do n't venture into the surf zone , scaring swimmers and surfers as great whites do .	they tend to stay in the open ocean and do not scare swimmers and surfers by coming into the surf zone like great whites do .
feed	eat	VBP	feed	eat	4	4	though the sharks typically feed off fish , a small seal pup was once found in a captured mako 's stomach , indicating they have other food sources .	though the sharks typically eat fish , a small seal baby was once found in a captured mako 's stomach .
pup	baby	NN	pup	baby	11	10	though the sharks typically feed off fish , a small seal pup was once found in a captured mako 's stomach , indicating they have other food sources .	though the sharks typically eat fish , a small seal baby was once found in a captured mako 's stomach .
shopping	shop	NN	shopping	shop	8	1	they are the customers that outlet malls , shopping centers and tour bus operators most want .	their shop - ' til-you-drop habit makes them the customers that malls and tour bus operators want most .
class	middle-class	NN	class	middle-class	2	4	the middle class in china numbered 247 million people in 2011 .	china had 247 million middle-class people in 2011 .
draw	bring	VB	draw	bring	1	1	to draw in more chinese spending , store owners , hotel managers and tour guides in southern california are going out of their way to welcome chinese tourists .	to bring in more chinese spending , store owners , hotel managers and tour guides in southern california are going out of their way to welcome chinese tourists .
bring	get	VB	bring	get	1	8	to bring in more chinese spending , store owners , hotel managers and tour guides in southern california are going out of their way to welcome chinese tourists .	store owners in southern california really try to get chinese tourists to shop .
terror	terrorism	NN	terror	terrorism	8	7	when asked a question that pitted investigating possible terror threats versus protecting personal privacy , almost two-thirds of those polled said the priority was investigating the threats .	almost two-thirds of those polled said investigating terrorism threats takes a higher priority than preserving personal privacy .
proponent	supporter	NN	proponent	supporter	4	4	snowden became a firm proponent of civil liberties , affixing a sticker to his laptop promoting the electronic frontier foundation , which advocates for internet users ' rights .	snowden became a firm supporter of civil liberties .
comfy	comfortable	JJ	comfy	comfortable	8	8	aaliyah retreated to the bright classroom with a comfy couch , chairs and posters , to get a counselor to help the girls talk .	so she went to the classroom with a comfortable couch , chairs and posters , to get a counselor to help the two girls talk it out .
classroom	room	NN	classroom	room	5	6	aaliyah retreated to the bright classroom with a comfy couch , chairs and posters , to get a counselor to help the girls talk .	so she went to the peace room .
concept	idea	NN	concept	idea	1	1	the concept is increasingly being used in schools , community centers and churches in chicago as a way to teach young people how to dissect their anger .	the idea is used in schools , churches and other places in chicago .
repair	fix	VB	repair	fix	21	19	while there may still be punishment for wrongdoing , restorative justice emphasizes identifying hurt and harm and thinking of ways to repair and heal .	there may still be punishment for wrongdoing , but restorative justice emphasizes identifying hurt and thinking of ways to fix it .
hurt	pain	NN	hurt	pain	13	6	while there may still be punishment for wrongdoing , restorative justice emphasizes identifying hurt and harm and thinking of ways to repair and heal .	but restorative justice emphasizes identifying emotional pain and thinking of ways to fix it .
multiple	many	JJ	multiple	many	0	0	multiple ambulances could be seen at the square .	many ambulances were seen at the scene .
multiple	several	JJ	multiple	several	0	0	multiple ambulances could be seen at the square .	several ambulances were seen at the scene .
many	several	JJ	many	several	0	0	many ambulances were seen at the scene .	several ambulances were seen at the scene .
court	courthouse	NN	court	courthouse	7	4	police also stormed istanbul 's central caglayan court after lawyers began an anti-erdogan protest .	police also stormed a courthouse after lawyers protested against erdogan there .
officer	policeman	NN	officer	policeman	5	4	three protesters and one police officer have been killed in the protests so far .	three protesters and one policeman have been killed since the clashes began on may 28 .
develop	make	VB	develop	make	12	12	the ruling thursday means that competing firms now have more flexibility to develop cancer-testing tools that involve the genes for which myriad held the patents .	the ruling means that it will be easier for other companies to make cancer tests .
incentive	reward	NN	incentive	reward	13	12	rudolph added that the court sought to balance whether patents serve as an incentive or an impediment to invention .	rudolph added that the court wanted to balance whether patents are a reward for invention or a roadblock .
key	important	JJ	key	important	7	7	los angeles heading the ball is a key soccer skill .	los angeles heading the ball is an important skill in soccer .
youth	kid	NN	youth	kid	12	15	lipton said he has n't headed a ball himself since he played youth soccer .	lipton said he has n't headed a ball himself since he played soccer as a kid .
nice	good	JJ	nice	good	3	3	soccer provided a nice venue for his research .	soccer was a good sport for his research .
bad	unhealthy	JJ	bad	unhealthy	0	8	bad measurements of white matter health have also been found in people who have suffered concussions .	people who suffered concussions were found to have unhealthy white matter .
track	follow	VB	track	follow	14	14	the researchers found no link between heading and players ' attention , ability to track visual stimuli or ability to manage complex cognitive tasks .	the researchers found no link between heading and players ' attention , ability to follow things with their eyes or ability to do complex thinking tasks .
link	connection	NN	link	connection	4	8	the researchers found no link between heading and players ' attention , ability to track visual stimuli or ability to manage complex cognitive tasks .	lipton and his team did not find a connection between heading and players ' attention spans .
potential	possible	JJ	potential	possible	9	7	however , lipton cautioned players not to dismiss the potential risks of excessive headers .	lipton said players should not ignore the possible risks of heading the ball too many times .
analogous	similar	JJ	analogous	similar	5	5	the head count would be analogous to the '' pitch count '' in baseball that ensures pitchers do n't throw too many pitches in a single outing .	the head count would be similar to the '' pitch count '' in baseball .
consider	think	VB	consider	think	5	5	practice is also important to consider , lipton said .	practice is also important to think about , lipton said .
size	number	NN	size	number	8	7	the study was based on a small sample size .	the study was based on a small number of players .
industry	sector	NN	industry	sector	18	11	harkin wrote in an email to the star tribune that progress in combating child labor in the cocoa industry has not come quickly enough .	progress has been made in combating child labor in the cocoa sector since the harkin-engel protocol was signed in 2001 .
remedy	fix	VB	remedy	fix	13	13	on the plus side , the cocoa industry committed $ 10 million to remedy the problem .	on the plus side , the cocoa industry offered $ 10 million to fix the problem .
scope	size	NN	scope	size	3	3	but given the scope of the child labor problem , more investments are needed , he added .	but given the size of the child labor problem , more investments are needed , harkin said .
large	big	JJ	large	big	6	6	but the child labor problem is large .	but the child labor problem is big .
industry	company	NN	industry	company	8	6	cargill officials say the company is among the industry 's leading investors in the child labor fight .	cargill says it is a leading company in the child labor fight .
end	stop	VB	end	stop	3	5	it wanted to end the worst forms of child labor by 2005 .	adm said it works to stop the worst forms of child labor .
teaching	training	NN	teaching	training	3	4	but cargill employees teaching production techniques have themselves been trained to recognize signs of child labor , company officials said .	but cargill employees doing training are also supposed to recognize signs of child labor .
grow	increase	VB	grow	increase	6	6	but the league has tried to grow interest in the game by reaching out to youth in urban communities .	but the league has tried to increase interest in the game by reaching out to youth in urban communities .
region	area	NN	region	area	5	5	still , in the chicago region there are efforts to develop interest in the sport among minorities .	still , in the chicago area there are efforts to develop interest in the sport among minorities .
permit	permission	NN	permit	permission	1	16	a permit would be required to buy a chimpanzee from another state , but not from somebody in your own state .	if fish and wildlife 's plan is approved , some activities involving chimps will require legal permission .
buy	purchase	VB	buy	purchase	6	8	a permit would be required to buy a chimpanzee from another state , but not from somebody in your own state .	for instance , buyers would need permission to purchase a chimpanzee from another state , but not from somebody in the same state .
own	same	JJ	own	same	19	21	a permit would be required to buy a chimpanzee from another state , but not from somebody in your own state .	for instance , buyers would need permission to purchase a chimpanzee from another state , but not from somebody in the same state .
chimpanzee	chimp	NN	chimpanzee	chimp	1	1	the chimpanzee population is threatened by encroaching human development and by hunting .	the chimp is threatened encroaching human development into their habitats and by hunting .
cause	reason	NN	cause	reason	11	11	the capture of chimpanzees for the international pet trade is another cause of the animals ' decline .	the capture of chimpanzees for the international pet trade is another reason for their decline .
curtail	reduce	VB	curtail	reduce	11	11	in the past two years , the nih has moved to curtail the funding of chimpanzee experimentation .	in the past two years , the nih has moved to reduce the money available for chimpanzee experimentation .
funding	money	NN	funding	money	13	13	in the past two years , the nih has moved to curtail the funding of chimpanzee experimentation .	in the past two years , the nih has moved to reduce the money available for chimpanzee experimentation .
particularized	particular	JJ	particularized	particular	7	7	but it is very narrowly focused on particularized cases and particularized needs , and that is the principal privacy limitations we have , '' mueller said .	but he said they were limited to particular needs and particular cases .
complicated	complex	JJ	complicated	complex	25	22	the group voted after debating whether the action would do more to help affected patients get treatment , or would add more shame to the complicated condition .	they argued whether the action would do more to help overweight patients get treatment , or would add more shame to the complex condition .
useful	good	JJ	useful	good	13	10	they argued whether the action would do more to help overweight patients get useful treatment , or would add more shame to the condition .	they questioned whether the action would do more harm than good .
reimburse	pay	VB	reimburse	pay	7	7	there is demand for the companies to reimburse doctors for the time-consuming task of discussing obesity 's health risks with patients .	there is demand for the companies to pay doctors for time-consuming talks with their patients about obesity .
coverage	insurance	NN	coverage	insurance	1	3	but coverage for such obesity treatments has been uneven among private insurers .	but not all insurance covers such obesity treatments .
administration	government	NN	administration	government	4	1	the food and drug administration , which has approved just two new prescription weight-loss medications since 1999 , could face increased pressure to approve new obesity drugs .	the government has approved just two new weight-loss medications since 1999 .
get	make	VB	get	make	7	3	that could spur new drug development and get doctors to prescribe them more , the council noted .	it could also make doctors prescribe them more , the ama noted .
term	word	NN	term	word	6	6	still , he worried that the term disease may make people feel ashamed .	still , he worried that the word disease may make people feel ashamed .
energy	power	NN	energy	power	17	15	and for the past three decades , he has tried unsuccessfully to turn the stinky dung into energy .	for the past three decades , he has tried to turn the stinky dung into power .
create	make	VB	create	make	19	8	he installed a nearly $ 1 million renewable energy system in 1985 that used the methane from manure to create electricity for his farm .	that system used the methane from manure to make electricity for his farm .
attempt	try	NN	attempt	try	10	10	he said he is optimistic that this go-around his third attempt to make a system work will finally pay off .	he said he is optimistic that this go-around his third try to make a system work will finally pay off .
electricity	power	NN	electricity	power	14	4	state officials are pushing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions , and that is causing electricity companies to pursue more renewable energy sources .	and that is causing power companies to pursue more renewable energy sources .
begin	start	VB	begin	start	4	2	it 's set to begin construction on its first digester on koetsier 's dairy in the coming weeks .	it will start building its first digester on koetsier 's dairy farm in a few weeks .
however	though	RB	however	though	3	13	the challenge , however , may be trying to persuade weary dairy farmers to give digesters another try , especially after some tough years in the dairy industry .	it may be hard to get dairy farmers to give digesters another try though .
manure	dung	NN	manure	dung	0	7	manure is fed into a digester , which extracts methane from decomposing organic material , removes impurities and burns it to produce energy .	the digester removes methane gas as the dung decomposes .
component	part	NN	component	part	20	11	but many farmers ran afoul of air pollution regulations because their generators emitted nitrogen oxide , or nox , a component of smog .	their generators emitted nitrogen oxide , or nox , which is part of smog .
additional	new	JJ	additional	new	15	1	retrofitting digesters with catalytic converters was expensive , costing about $ 150,000 , and put additional strain on the engines that run the systems .	putting new parts into the digesters to cut down on pollution was expensive , costing about $ 150,000 .
kick-start	start	VB	kick-start	start	10	8	with those advances in mind , officials are trying to kick-start new projects .	with those advances , officials are trying to start new projects quickly .
lease	rent	VB	lease	rent	9	4	instead of koetsier running the operation , ch4 will lease the land where the system will be installed and buy koetsier 's manure .	instead , ch4 will rent the land where the system will be installed , and buy koetsier 's manure .
devastation	destruction	NN	devastation	destruction	5	5	numerous accounts of death and devastation have emerged in the disaster 's aftermath .	numerous accounts of death and destruction have emerged in the disaster 's aftermath .
pilgrim	pilgrimage	NN	pilgrim	pilgrimage	4	5	radhey shyam , a pilgrim to kedarnath , was the sole survivor in his family , with 13 relatives killed .	radhey shyam was on a pilgrimage to kedarnath .
chagrin	dismay	NN	chagrin	dismay	6	5	much to the obama administration 's chagrin , hong kong let snowden fly to russia on sunday .	to the obama administration 's dismay , hong kong let snowden fly to russia on sunday .
publically	publicly	RB	publically	publicly	11	11	the new york times said that snowden has not been seen publically , or photographed , since he arrived in moscow .	the new york times said that snowden has not been seen publicly , or photographed , since he arrived in moscow .
barricade	barrier	NN	barricade	barrier	8	8	the vehicle was trying to drive around a barricade erected by protesters in ribeirao preto , 185 miles north of sao paolo .	the vehicle was trying to drive around a barrier set up by protesters .
hike	rise	NN	hike	rise	10	10	the protests began more than a week ago against a hike in public transport fares .	the protests began more than a week ago against a rise in bus fares .
raise	rise	NN	raise	rise	10	10	the protests began more than a week ago against a raise in bus fares .	the protests began more than a week ago against a rise in bus fares .
shopping	buying	NN	shopping	buying	24	5	the rich have demonstrated their acquisitive power by snapping up luxury condos in miami , and even the middle class had begun to enjoy shopping trips to florida .	the rich have demonstrated their buying power by snapping up luxury condos in miami .
largely	mostly	RB	largely	mostly	21	21	more than 100,000 people took to the streets in sao paulo , brazil 's largest city , where the protests were largely peaceful .	more than 100,000 people took to the streets in sao paulo , brazil 's largest city , where the protests were mostly peaceful .
indeed	really	RB	indeed	really	12	6	and reams of documents are needed to prove that an immigrant has indeed put down roots in the united states .	and to prove that an immigrant really has put down roots in the united states , they must provide stacks of paperwork .
also	even	RB	also	even	2	4	now it also provides a two-year work permit .	now it offers something even better : a two-year work permit .
benefit	reward	NN	benefit	reward	5	5	but for some , that benefit may be out of reach .	but for some , that reward may be out of reach .
question	wonder	NN	question	wonder	12	12	the program encourages young immigrants to further their education , but some question whether the practical obstacles , particularly for farmworkers , were fully considered .	the program encourages young immigrants to get better educated , but some wonder if anyone thought about some of the obstacles they may face , especially farmworkers .
consultation	advice	NN	consultation	advice	15	10	they spoke with attorney barbara pinto of the legal resource center , for a free consultation .	they spoke with attorney barbara pinto to get free legal advice .
attorney	lawyer	NN	attorney	lawyer	3	7	they spoke with attorney barbara pinto of the legal resource center , for a free consultation .	the sisters got free legal advice from lawyer barbara pinto .
warped	twisted	JJ	warped	twisted	8	8	it is a bit like being in a warped disney movie , where instead of bluebirds on one 's shoulder there are flying black-and-brown bugs with orange eyes .	it is a bit like being in a twisted disney movie , where instead of bluebirds on one 's shoulder there are flying black-and-brown bugs with orange eyes .
bite	bit	NN	bite	bit	20	6	dellaratta claims that six bugs coordinated an attack on him , five distracting him while one went in for a bite .	five cicadas distracted him while one bit him .
smell	odor	NN	smell	odor	1	5	the smell well , matarazzo likens it to that of a dirty , wet dog .	matarazzo likens it to the odor of a dirty , wet dog .
demonstration	rally	NN	demonstration	rally	5	5	protestors even held a pro-dog demonstration thursday in beijing , with people in colorful animal costumes dancing in a plaza in support of the yulin canines .	protesters even held a pro-dog rally thursday in beijing , with people dressed in colorful animal costumes dancing in a plaza to support the yulin canines .
population	populace	NN	population	populace	13	13	the strong reactions illustrated the growing concern for animal welfare among the chinese population , cheering animal activists .	the strong reactions illustrated the growing concern for animal welfare among the chinese populace , heartening animal activists .
populace	population	NN	populace	population	13	13	the strong reactions illustrated the growing concern for animal welfare among the chinese populace , heartening animal activists .	the strong reactions showed a growing concern for animal welfare among the chinese population .
long	longstanding	JJ	long	longstanding	3	7	there is a long history of eating dog meat with lychee fruit on the summer solstice .	but some in yulin argued that their longstanding practice of eating dog meat with lychee fruit on the summer solstice is good for health .
longstanding	long	JJ	longstanding	long	7	3	but some in yulin argued that their longstanding practice of eating dog meat with lychee fruit on the summer solstice is good for health .	there is a long history of eating dog meat with lychee fruit at the start of summer .
dog-meat	dog	NN	dog-meat	dog	13	9	some observers , however , said the activists ' efforts to condemn the dog-meat festival might backfire .	some observers said the efforts to put down the dog meat festival might backfire .
dog-meat	meat	NN	dog-meat	meat	13	10	some observers , however , said the activists ' efforts to condemn the dog-meat festival might backfire .	some observers said the efforts to put down the dog meat festival might backfire .
dog	dog-meat	NN	dog	dog-meat	9	9	some observers said the efforts to put down the dog meat festival might backfire .	some people said the efforts to put down the dog-meat festival might backfire .
meat	dog-meat	NN	meat	dog-meat	10	9	some observers said the efforts to put down the dog meat festival might backfire .	some people said the efforts to put down the dog-meat festival might backfire .
initial	early	JJ	initial	early	0	0	initial dispatches blamed tourists for interfering with the rescue of the marine mammal .	early reports blamed tourists for interfering with the rescue of the marine mammal .
case	decision	NN	case	decision	5	4	the opinion said that the case is limited to marriages that are legally recognized in the states .	he said that the decision is limited to those marriages in states that allow gay marriage .
gay	same-sex	JJ	gay	same-sex	14	12	he said that the decision is limited to those marriages in states that allow gay marriage .	kennedy said that the decision was limited to marriages in states with same-sex marriage .
likelihood	chance	NN	likelihood	chance	19	8	the rare defect requires a series of risky surgeries and , even then , leaves the infants with the likelihood that their hearts will wear out prematurely .	even then , the infants have a big chance that their hearts will wear out too soon .
complex	complicated	JJ	complex	complicated	20	17	they learned that children born with defects on the left side of the heart must undergo a series of three complex surgeries .	they learned that children born with defects on the left side of the heart must have three complicated surgeries .
complex	difficult	JJ	complex	difficult	20	13	they learned that children born with defects on the left side of the heart must undergo a series of three complex surgeries .	children with problems on the left side of the heart must have three difficult operations .
complicated	difficult	JJ	complicated	difficult	17	13	they learned that children born with defects on the left side of the heart must have three complicated surgeries .	children with problems on the left side of the heart must have three difficult operations .
numerous	many	JJ	numerous	many	3	3	ava has suffered numerous complications and once had to be flown back to mayo in a helicopter .	ava has suffered many complications .
research	study	NN	research	study	12	10	still , ava 's parents remain dedicated to helping with mayo 's research .	still , ava 's parents want to help mayo 's study .
trial	test	NN	trial	test	4	4	mayo just finished a trial in europe showing that they could make the cells work better and significantly improve the patient 's health .	mayo just finished a test in europe .
painstakingly	carefully	RB	painstakingly	carefully	10	10	the senate vote showed strong support to the thousand-page bill painstakingly crafted by eight senators from both parties and amended this week to bring in some skeptics .	the senate vote showed strong support to the thousand-page bill carefully crafted by senators from both parties .
place	force	NN	place	force	14	11	twenty thousand additional border patrol agents would be added to the 18,400 already in place .	twenty thousand additional border patrol agents would be added to the force of 18,400 .
essentially	basically	RB	essentially	basically	4	4	opponents said the plan essentially pardoned people who broke the law and they questioned whether the security provisions were realistic .	opponents said the plan basically pardons people who broke the law .
vote	voting	NN	vote	voting	16	6	they saw their presidential nominee , mitt romney , win only about one-fourth of the hispanic vote last year and are concerned that constituency is slipping away .	they are worried that an important voting block is slipping away .
nominee	candidate	NN	nominee	candidate	4	5	they saw their presidential nominee , mitt romney , win only about one-fourth of the hispanic vote last year and are concerned that constituency is slipping away .	last year , their presidential candidate , mitt romney , won only about one-fourth of the hispanic vote .
development	growth	NN	development	growth	26	16	dakar , senegal - president barack obama arrived in this corner of west africa to deliver messages about civil society and good governance , democracy and development .	dakar , senegal - president barack obama came to west africa to talk about democracy and growth .
house	place	NN	house	place	2	9	the slave house , built in 1776 by the dutch , may have primarily served as a merchant 's home , they say .	some historians say the dusty island was mainly a place for ships to stop .
primarily	mainly	RB	primarily	mainly	13	7	the slave house , built in 1776 by the dutch , may have primarily served as a merchant 's home , they say .	some historians say the dusty island was mainly a place for ships to stop .
laborer	worker	NN	laborer	worker	15	7	andkhoy , afghanistan when esmatullah got engaged in 1999 , he was a 26-year-old day laborer .	andkhoy , afghanistan esmatullah is a day worker who got engaged in 1999 at age 26 .
long-standing	old	JJ	long-standing	old	4	5	afghan weddings brim with long-standing traditions , and one of them is the custom known as walwar .	afghan weddings come with many old traditions , and one of them is the custom known as walwar .
long-standing	ancient	JJ	long-standing	ancient	4	4	afghan weddings brim with long-standing traditions , and one of them is the custom known as walwar .	afghan weddings have many ancient traditions .
old	ancient	JJ	old	ancient	5	4	afghan weddings come with many old traditions , and one of them is the custom known as walwar .	afghan weddings have many ancient traditions .
harshly	strongly	RB	harshly	strongly	3	4	the tradition is harshly criticized by women 's rights supporters .	women 's rights supporters strongly criticize the tradition .
major	big	JJ	major	big	3	7	pride is a major motive behind afghans ' extravagant wedding budgets , says samir rostiyar , a wedding hall owner in kabul .	pride drives much of the spending on big afghan weddings , says samir rostiyar , a wedding hall owner in kabul .
motive	reason	NN	motive	reason	4	4	pride is a major motive behind afghans ' extravagant wedding budgets , says samir rostiyar , a wedding hall owner in kabul .	pride is a major reason for the expense attached to afghan weddings , says samir rostiyar .
spending	expense	NN	spending	expense	5	7	pride drives much of the spending on big afghan weddings , says samir rostiyar , a wedding hall owner in kabul .	pride is a major reason for the expense attached to afghan weddings , says samir rostiyar .
big	major	JJ	big	major	7	3	pride drives much of the spending on big afghan weddings , says samir rostiyar , a wedding hall owner in kabul .	pride is a major reason for the expense attached to afghan weddings , says samir rostiyar .
major	main	JJ	major	main	3	3	pride is a major motive behind afghans ' extravagant wedding budgets , says samir rostiyar , a wedding hall owner in kabul .	pride is a main reason why afghans spend so much on large weddings , says samir rostiyar .
big	large	JJ	big	large	7	11	pride drives much of the spending on big afghan weddings , says samir rostiyar , a wedding hall owner in kabul .	pride is a main reason why afghans spend so much on large weddings , says samir rostiyar .
prospective	future	JJ	prospective	future	10	10	so far , he 's been able to pay his prospective father-in-law only about $ 1,000 .	so far , he 's been able to pay his future father-in-law only about $ 1,000 .
blaze	fire	NN	blaze	fire	2	6	the out-of-control blaze had surrounded the community of yarnell , burning down much of the town , officials said .	they were fighting the yarnell hill fire .
inhalation	breathing	NN	inhalation	breathing	8	10	but homeowners flooded in , suffering from smoke inhalation as well as shock at losing their homes , she said .	but homeowners flooded in , suffering from the effects of breathing too much smoke .
also	well	RB	also	well	1	10	some also were in shock from losing their homes , she said .	they were suffering from breathing too much smoke , as well as shock at losing their homes , she said .
act	bill	NN	act	bill	12	6	casey and pitts are co-sponsoring the children 's hospital gme support reauthorization act of 2013 , which aims to restore funding for the program , grollman said .	pitts and casey are co-sponsoring a bill that aims to restore program funding to children 's hospitals around the country .
agency	office	NN	agency	office	3	12	the state news agency said about 500 young men hurling stones and molotov cocktails set ablaze the headquarters of morsi 's muslim brotherhood party in cairo .	about 500 young men set on fire the muslim brotherhood 's main office in cairo .
military	army	NN	military	army	11	2	the president and the brotherhood have refused to budge and the military has deployed troops around government buildings and along the shipping lanes of the suez canal .	and the army sent out troops to guard government buildings .
protect	guard	VB	protect	guard	7	7	the military has sent out troops to protect government buildings and the suez canal , an important waterway for shipping .	and the army sent out troops to guard government buildings .
mostly	largely	RB	mostly	largely	4	4	the demonstrations sunday were mostly peaceful , and at times marked by acts of kindness .	the rallies sunday were largely peaceful .
collide	clash	VB	collide	clash	8	8	but security officials fear the two sides may collide .	but there are fears the two sides might clash .
address	speech	NN	address	speech	2	3	in an address to the nation last week , morsi admitted mistakes during his first year in office .	in a nationwide speech last week , morsi admitted mistakes during his first year in office .
restive	tense	JJ	restive	tense	6	6	his comments failed to calm a restive poor and working class who have endured months of inflation , power shortages and gas lines .	his comments failed to calm a tense poor and working class who have endured months of rising prices , power shortages and gas station lines .
work	job	NN	work	job	6	7	his single mother was out of work , and there were two siblings to think about , then ages 2 and 3 .	his single mother did n't have a job , and there were two younger children to think about then ages 2 and 3 .
find	get	VBP	find	get	19	19	now , gray since dubbed '' the million dollar scholar '' has found a way to help other teens find scholarship money .	now , gray since nicknamed '' the million dollar scholar '' has found a way to help other teens get scholarship money .
just	only	RB	just	only	10	10	gray and his friends decided to keep the price at just 99 cents .	gray and his friends decided to keep the price low only 99 cents .
tuition	school	NN	tuition	school	12	22	gray 's biggest coup was the gates millennium scholarship , which covers tuition and room and board from a bachelor 's to a doctorate .	gray 's biggest prize was the gates millennium scholarship , which will pay for all four years of college , plus graduate school .
dining	food	NN	dining	food	5	19	los angeles an ancient asian dining tradition comes to an end in california on monday , and grocer emily gian is none too happy .	los angeles on monday , no one in california will be able to eat an ancient type of asian food anymore .
species	kinds	NNS	species	kind	5	4	the populations of some shark species , such as hammerheads , have been reduced by as much as 90 percent in recent years .	ninety percent of some kinds of sharks have been killed in recent years , like the hammerhead .
unfair	fair	JJ	unfair	fair	3	8	it can seem unfair to ban shark fins in california while chefs and grocers in other states continue sales unfettered .	but gian and others said it 's not fair to ban shark fins in california while chefs and grocers in other states can continue to sell them .
unscathed	unharmed	JJ	unscathed	unharmed	3	3	lady liberty survived unscathed , but her home was trashed .	lady liberty survived unharmed , but her home was trashed .
adjacent	nearby	JJ	adjacent	nearby	16	16	the national park service expected to spend about $ 56 million to fix liberty island and adjacent ellis island , home to an immigration museum that remains closed .	the national park service expected to spend about $ 56 million to fix liberty island and nearby ellis island , home to an immigration museum that remains closed .
interior	inside	NN	interior	inside	14	12	29 , 2011 the statue was closed for one year for upgrades to its interior .	29 , 2011 the statue was closed for one year as the inside was renovated .
consume	eat	VBP	consume	eat	6	6	louis one-third of the food we consume depends on pollination by honeybees .	louis one-third of the food we eat depends on pollination by honeybees .
toxic	harmful	JJ	toxic	harmful	25	4	the thing to blame is a particular class of insecticides , called neonicotinoids , that are widely used because they are thought to be less toxic to mammals .	they are considered less harmful to humans and animals , so they are widely used .
researcher	scientist	NN	researcher	scientist	6	0	a recent study by purdue university researcher christian krupke found high levels of neonicotinoids in dead bees in and around corn fields .	scientist christian krupke found high levels of neonicotinoid in the dead bees .
goatee	beard	NN	goatee	beard	6	7	a smile emerges from his gray goatee .	a smile emerges from his small gray beard .
battle	battlefield	NN	battle	battlefield	14	6	it 's where stocker was monday to mark the 150th anniversary of the three-day battle .	stocker and his father walked that battlefield during their summers together .
troops	soldiers	NNS	troops	soldier	18	17	positioned too far from the rest of the 11th corps , the regiment got hit hard by confederate troops who charged out of a thicket of trees .	but it was too far from other union troops and the regiment got hit hard by confederate soldiers who charged out of a thicket of trees .
flight	airplane	NN	flight	airplane	5	3	on saturday , asiana airlines flight 214 from seoul , south korea , crashed after touching down on the runway .	los angeles an airplane crashed at san francisco international airport saturday .
important	large	JJ	important	large	18	6	more than 1,100 of the planes have been delivered , and nearly all of the world 's most important airlines fly 777s on long-range routes .	nearly all of the world 's large airlines fly 777s on long-haul routes .
long-range	long	JJ	long-range	long	23	11	more than 1,100 of the planes have been delivered , and nearly all of the world 's most important airlines fly 777s on long-range routes .	nearly all of the world 's large airlines fly 777s for long routes .
long-haul	long	JJ	long-haul	long	11	11	nearly all of the world 's large airlines fly 777s on long-haul routes .	nearly all of the world 's large airlines fly 777s for long routes .
estate	real-estate	NN	estate	real-estate	2	1	high real estate prices make us homeless , '' said one comment on sina weibo , the chinese version of twitter .	high real-estate prices make us homeless , '' said one comment on a chinese blogging site .
buy	afford	VB	buy	afford	7	7	yet skyrocketing prices make it hard to buy apartments in metropolises such as beijing and shanghai , so many young people are postponing getting married .	yet skyrocketing prices make it hard to afford an apartment .
shoulder	take	VB	shoulder	take	12	10	as only children , the post - ' 80s generation also must shoulder the burden of caring for aging parents and grandparents .	as only children , the post - ' 80s must take care of their aging parents and grandparents on their own .
endemic	widespread	JJ	endemic	widespread	0	0	endemic corruption and nepotism have meant that those in their generation whose families have powerful connections and wealth are privy to the best opportunities .	widespread nepotism has meant that those in their generation whose families have powerful connections and wealth are get offered the best opportunities .
leader	president	NN	leader	president	14	7	supporters of morsi have camped there for days demanding the release of the former leader , who has been under arrest since a military coup last week .	they are demanding the release of the president , who has been under arrest .
assist	help	VB	assist	help	17	10	they called upon their supporters to donate blood and rush to the nasr district of cairo to assist the victims .	they asked supporters to donate blood and to rush to help the victims .
interim	temporary	JJ	interim	temporary	6	6	hours earlier , egypt 's new interim leadership had narrowed in on a compromise candidate to serve as the next prime minister .	hours earlier , egypt 's new temporary leadership had narrowed in on a compromise candidate to serve as the next prime minister .
choice	pick	NN	choice	pick	7	6	el-din is seen as a less divisive choice than secular opposition leader mohamed elbaradei , whose nomination was abruptly blocked a day earlier .	el-din is seen as a compromise pick in place of mohamed elbaradei , whose nomination was suddenly blocked a day earlier .
abruptly	suddenly	RB	abruptly	suddenly	18	16	el-din is seen as a less divisive choice than secular opposition leader mohamed elbaradei , whose nomination was abruptly blocked a day earlier .	el-din is seen as a compromise pick in place of mohamed elbaradei , whose nomination was suddenly blocked a day earlier .
war	conflict	NN	war	conflict	15	4	instead , the fumbling raised fresh doubts about peace and fears of a possible civil war .	instead , fumbling and conflict raised fresh doubts about egypt 's future .
receive	get	VB	receive	get	18	18	people in the program who agree to work in schools that primarily serve low-income , high-needs students can receive a $ 10,000 bonus .	people in the program who agree to work in schools that primarily serve low-income , high-needs students can get a $ 10,000 bonus .
officer	staff	NN	officer	staff	5	5	he also was a protocol officer in bosnia for a commanding general .	he also was on the staff for a commanding general in bosnia .
great	big	JJ	great	big	9	8	in the other direction , a backhoe was scooping great piles of it into dump trucks .	in the other direction , a backhoe scooped big piles of it into dump trucks .
flora	plant	NN	flora	plant	19	10	onshore winds help bring the strands ashore overnight , with some beaches buried under 16 inches of the flosslike flora , known to scientists as ulva prolifera .	some beaches are buried under 16 inches of the flossy plant , known to scientists as ulva prolifera .
appear	show	VB	appear	show	4	4	the seaweed began to appear a month ago .	the seaweed started to show up a month ago .
competition	race	NN	competition	race	15	13	in 2008 , the algae threatened to disrupt qingdao 's hosting of the olympic sailing competition , so the government dispatched 1,000 soldiers to help purge the waters .	in 2008 , the algae threatened qingdao 's hosting of the olympic sailing race , so the government sent 1,000 soldiers to help clear the waters .
municipal	local	JJ	municipal	local	3	3	these days , municipal authorities are carting off the seaweed to five processing depots .	these days , local authorities are carting off the seaweed to five processing plants .
aircraft	plane	NN	aircraft	plane	5	5	the flight of the unmanned aircraft , dubbed x-47b '' salty dog 502 , '' could redefine naval aviation .	the flight of the unmanned plane , called x-47b '' salty dog 502 , '' could redefine aviation for the navy .
ocean	sea	NN	ocean	sea	9	6	landing on an aircraft carrier as it plies the ocean and pitches with the waves is considered an extremely difficult feat for even the most seasoned pilot .	landing on an aircraft carrier at sea as it pitches with the waves is considered an extremely difficult feat for even the most seasoned pilot .
seasoned	experienced	JJ	seasoned	experienced	25	20	landing on an aircraft carrier as it plies the ocean and pitches with the waves is considered an extremely difficult feat for even the most seasoned pilot .	landing on an aircraft carrier on the ocean as it rides the waves is considered an extremely difficult feat for experienced pilots .
sea	ocean	NN	sea	ocean	6	7	landing on an aircraft carrier at sea as it pitches with the waves is considered an extremely difficult feat for even the most seasoned pilot .	landing on an aircraft carrier on the ocean as it rides the waves is considered an extremely difficult feat for experienced pilots .
determine	find	VB	determine	find	10	8	the aircraft digitally communicated with the carrier 's computers to determine speed , crosswinds and other information as it approached from miles away .	it talked with the carrier 's computers to find out speed , wind direction and everything else it needed to know .
station	base	NN	station	base	19	11	it continued testing there until last year , when it was trucked from the mojave desert to naval air station patuxent river in maryland .	the original x-47b had its first flight from edwards air force base in 2011 .
demonstrate	show	VB	demonstrate	show	8	6	it also conducted deck-handling and ship-integration testing to demonstrate the capability to safely operate the x-47b on an aircraft carrier flight deck .	it also conducted other tests to show that the x-47b could be used safely on an aircraft carrier flight deck .
facility	plant	NN	facility	plant	14	13	both were constructed behind barbed-wire fences and double security doors at northrop 's expansive facility in palmdale , calif .	both were constructed behind barbed-wire fences and double security doors at northrop 's plant in palmdale , calif .
swap	exchange	VB	swap	exchange	6	5	fans with used hernandez jerseys can swap them at the team store this weekend for those of any other player on the roster .	the team also let fans exchange their used hernandez jerseys for those of any other patriot .
background	information	NN	background	information	24	12	sundquist , the team 's general manager from 2002 to 2008 , said there 's a misconception that the nfl provides teams with thorough background checks on prospects .	sundquist said people think that the nfl gives teams a lots of information on college players .
dinner	meal	NN	dinner	meal	10	6	first lady michelle obama 's second annual kids ' state dinner on tuesday honored the young winners of a healthy-eating recipe contest that drew more than 1,300 entries .	first lady michelle obama hosted the meal .
healthy-eating	healthy	JJ	healthy-eating	healthy	19	10	first lady michelle obama 's second annual kids ' state dinner on tuesday honored the young winners of a healthy-eating recipe contest that drew more than 1,300 entries .	this second annual event honored the young winners of the healthy lunchtime challenge , a recipe contest .
attire	clothing	NN	attire	clothing	2	2	as for attire , girls favored summery floral dresses and boys mostly went for preppy styles such as slacks and shirts , sometimes with blazers and bow ties .	as for clothing , girls favored summery floral dresses and boys mostly went for preppy styles such as slacks and shirts .
big	great	JJ	big	great	13	3	the fourth quarter of the 2012 , which included sandy and some other big winter storms , was a blockbuster , said curt hecht , a company executive .	it was a great for the company , said executive curt hecht .
encounter	find	VB	encounter	find	23	23	it pitched itself as a necessity for viewers trying to plan their days who needed to know what kind of weather they might encounter .	it pitched itself as a necessity for viewers trying to plan their days who wanted to know what kind of weather they might find .
highlight	show	VB	highlight	show	12	11	it may be tough to both inform people about the weather and highlight the dangerous nature of storms without exaggerating their danger to the average viewer .	it may be tough to tell people about the weather and show how dangerous it is without exaggerating .
verdict	decision	NN	verdict	decision	14	8	zimmerman stood at the defendant 's table , flanked by his lawyers as the verdict was read .	zimmerman showed no emotion when the jury 's decision was read to the packed courtroom .
prominent	important	JJ	prominent	important	13	3	in the protests before and after zimmerman 's indictment , hoodies played a prominent role .	hoodies played an important role in the protests before and after zimmerman was charged .
stay	keep	VB	stay	keep	25	14	where the prosecution described zimmerman as an out-of-control vigilante , the defense portrayed him as a good citizen making a personal sacrifice to help neighbors stay safe .	the defense portrayed zimmermann as a good citizen making a personal sacrifice to help keep his neighbors safe .
zimmerman	zimmermann	NN	zimmerman	zimmermann	4	3	where the prosecution described zimmerman as an out-of-control vigilante , the defense portrayed him as a good citizen making a personal sacrifice to help neighbors stay safe .	the defense portrayed zimmermann as a good citizen making a personal sacrifice to help keep his neighbors safe .
opaque	secretive	JJ	opaque	secretive	4	4	the selection process is opaque and closed to the public .	the selection process is secretive .
toner	ink	NN	toner	ink	11	13	unlike that laser printer in your office , there is no toner , no paper and no '' pc load letter '' errors .	but unlike your laser printer at home or school , there is no ink and no paper .
critical	important	JJ	critical	important	12	16	computing technology and material science of 3-d printing reaching the point where critical parts can be made with the press of a button .	computers are fast enough and materials are good enough so 3-d printing reached the point where important parts can be made with the press of a button .
proof	evidence	NN	proof	evidence	16	10	now scientists working in south dakota 's hell creek formation have unearthed what they say is proof that the dinosaur king hunted its prey .	now scientists have found what they say is the first evidence that the dinosaur king hunted its prey .
serrated	jagged	JJ	serrated	jagged	12	4	skeletal fossils indicate the creatures were well-suited to hunting , with long serrated teeth , strong hind limbs and a massive skull .	they had long , jagged teeth , strong hind limbs and a massive skull .
hind	rear	JJ	hind	rear	16	8	skeletal fossils indicate the creatures were well-suited to hunting , with long serrated teeth , strong hind limbs and a massive skull .	they had long , jagged teeth , strong rear limbs and a massive skull .
massive	big	JJ	massive	big	20	13	skeletal fossils indicate the creatures were well-suited to hunting , with long serrated teeth , strong hind limbs and a massive skull .	they had long , spiky teeth , strong rear limbs and a really big skull .
excavation	digging	NN	excavation	digging	1	1	further excavation revealed a cauliflower-like outgrowth fusing the soup bowl-sized vertebrae together a sign of bone healing .	further digging revealed that the two soup bowl-sized vertebrae were fused together , which is a sign of bone healing .
indicate	show	VB	indicate	show	14	3	the location of the large tooth on the underside of the hadrosaur vertebrae could indicate that the victim was lying down when it was attacked .	the find could show that the victim was lying down when it was attacked .
observe	watch	VB	observe	watch	3	3	paleontologists ca n't observe dinosaurs in the wild .	paleontologists ca n't watch them in the wild .
greatly	far	RB	greatly	far	2	2	it has greatly declined in pennsylvania , and is nearly gone from ohio and indiana .	there are far fewer of them in pennsylvania these days , and they are nearly gone from ohio and indiana .
fewer	less	JJR	fewer	less	3	4	there are far fewer of them in pennsylvania these days , and they are nearly gone from ohio and indiana .	there are a lot less of them in pennsylvania .
development	building	NN	development	building	3	3	roads and other development have cut off the pathways between woodrat habitats .	roads and other building projects have cut off the pathways between different areas where woodrats live .
bloodstream	blood	NN	bloodstream	blood	9	9	woodrats swallow the eggs , which get into their bloodstream and the organs .	woodrats swallow the eggs , which get into their blood and organs .
two-pronged	two-part	JJ	two-pronged	two-part	15	15	to help stave off the demise of bergen 's woodrats , valent has launched a two-pronged strategy .	to help stop the dying off of bergen 's woodrats , valent has launched a two-part strategy .
hit	blow	NN	hit	blow	2	2	the initial hit came in the early 1900s when a fungus laid waste to the american chestnut , which had been the woodrat 's main food source .	the first blow came in the early 1900s , when the american chestnut was almost killed off by a fungus .
off	out	RP	off	out	16	16	the first blow came in the early 1900s , when the american chestnut was almost killed off by a fungus .	the first blow came in the early 1900s , when the american chestnut was almost wiped out by a fungus .
prevalent	common	JJ	prevalent	common	6	20	other predators have also grown more prevalent , including black rat snakes and bobcats .	animals that eat woodrats , like the great horned owl , black rat snakes and bobcats , have grown more common , according to biologist jerry hassinger .
continue	keep	VB	continue	keep	11	11	whatever they should be called , the dep 's valent will continue his efforts to protect the last remaining woodrat colony in new jersey .	whatever they should be called , the dep 's valent will keep trying to protect the last remaining woodrat colony in new jersey .
keep	continue	VB	keep	continue	11	11	whatever they should be called , the dep 's valent will keep trying to protect the last remaining woodrat colony in new jersey .	whatever they should be called , the dep 's valent will continue his efforts to protect the last remaining woodrat colony in new jersey .
remain	keep	VB	remain	keep	11	14	if he succeeds , bergen 's '' boulder bunnies '' will remain a fixture amid the rubble at the base of the palisades .	if he succeeds , bergen 's '' boulder bunnies '' will be able to keep on living among the rubble at the base of the palisades .
surface	ground	NN	surface	ground	3	2	the issue did surface when zimmerman was arrested .	stand your ground did come up when zimmerman was arrested .
stand-your-ground	ground	NN	stand-your-ground	ground	0	2	stand-your-ground did surface when zimmerman was arrested .	stand your ground did come up when zimmerman was arrested .
also	still	RB	also	still	1	3	holder also said his office is examining all available evidence before deciding whether to pursue charges against neighborhood watchman zimmerman in the shooting death of the black teen .	federal prosecutors could still decide to charge zimmerman in the shooting death of the black teen .
examine	look	VB	examine	look	6	6	jealous said federal investigators need to examine evidence barred by the judge in the second-degree-murder case allegedly showing racism was a factor in the killing .	jealous said federal investigators need to look at evidence that the judge did not let into the case .
heavy-lift	heavy	JJ	heavy-lift	heavy	5	9	the c-124 globemaster was a heavy-lift workhorse nicknamed '' old shaky '' because of the racket from its big piston engines .	the c-124 globemaster , which was used to transport heavy loads , was nicknamed '' old shaky '' because of the racket from its big piston engines .
transport	carry	VB	transport	carry	8	6	the c-124 globemaster , which was used to transport heavy loads , was nicknamed '' old shaky '' because of the racket from its big piston engines .	the c-124 globemaster was used to carry heavy loads or large crews .
recover	collect	VB	recover	collect	9	9	back in the 1950s , officials considered trying to recover the wreckage and remains .	back in the 1950s , officials considered trying to collect the wreckage and human remains .
site	spot	NN	site	spot	16	15	in june 2012 , an army guard helicopter crew on a training mission discovered the wreck site .	in june 2012 , an army guard helicopter crew on a training mission discovered the spot where the plane had gone down .
site	place	NN	site	place	16	11	in june 2012 , an army guard helicopter crew on a training mission discovered the wreck site .	in june 2012 , an army guard helicopter crew spotted the place where the plane had crashed .
spot	place	NN	spot	place	15	11	in june 2012 , an army guard helicopter crew on a training mission discovered the spot where the plane had gone down .	in june 2012 , an army guard helicopter crew spotted the place where the plane had crashed .
tiny	small	JJ	tiny	small	0	0	tiny packs of camel and philip morris cigarettes that used to come in food rations .	small packs of camel and philip morris cigarettes .
huge	big	JJ	huge	big	4	4	pretoria , south africa huge crowds gathered outside a hospital to sing on thursday .	pretoria , south africa big crowds gathered outside the hospital to sing on thursday .
nation	country	NN	nation	country	2	2	around the nation , south africans contributed 67 minutes of community service to honor mandela 's 67 years of public service .	around the country , south africans contributed 67 minutes of community service to honor mandela 's 67 years of public service .
country	county	NN	country	county	2	4	around the country , south africans contributed 67 minutes of community service to honor mandela 's 67 years of public service .	south africans around the county contributed 67 minutes of community service to honor mandela 's 67 years of public work .
intimidate	scare	VB	intimidate	scare	14	14	his crime : as a 16-year-old he had fired a gun at school to intimidate a group of bullies .	his crime : as a 16-year-old he had fired a gun at school to scare a group of bullies .
plight	situation	NN	plight	situation	7	7	choun said there are other returnees whose plight is even worse .	choun said there are other people whose situation is even worse .
tragic	sad	JJ	tragic	sad	1	1	as tragic as the loss of three young lives in the crash is , 304 people lived a 99 percent survival rate .	as sad as the loss of three young lives in the crash is , 304 people lived .
aircraft	airplane	NN	aircraft	airplane	6	6	some escape slides opened inside the aircraft , momentarily trapping two flight attendants .	some escape slides opened inside the airplane .
vital	important	JJ	vital	important	10	10	the public address system was still active , so a vital evacuation order could be announced .	the public address system was still active , so an important order to get out of the plane could be announced .
scrawny	skinny	JJ	scrawny	skinny	20	9	bogota , colombia wedged behind an exhaust-belching bus and ahead of a honking car , luis enrique neira urges his scrawny horse pagatodo through a busy intersection .	bogota , colombia -- luis enrique neira urges his skinny horse pagatodo through a busy street .
positive	good	JJ	positive	good	13	13	despite her precarious economic state , garzon said she thinks the program is positive .	despite her shaky economic state , garzon said she thinks the program is good .
precarious	shaky	JJ	precarious	shaky	2	2	despite her precarious economic state , garzon said she thinks the program is positive .	despite her shaky economic state , garzon said she thinks the program is good .
position	stand	NN	position	stand	14	14	i understand that our country has to do some things '' to strengthen its position around the world , neugent said in an interview wednesday .	i understand that our country has to do some things '' to take a stand , neugent said on wednesday .
telephone	phone	NN	telephone	phone	8	16	sochi was a topic last friday during a telephone conversation between president barack obama and president vladimir putin of russia .	president barack obama and president vladimir putin of russia did talk about sochi during a recent phone conversation .
harm	hurt	VB	harm	hurt	21	16	stand-your-ground allows people to defend themselves with deadly force if necessary if they believe someone is trying to kill or seriously harm them .	the laws allow people to defend themselves with force if they believe someone is trying to hurt them .
perform	play	VB	perform	play	8	8	singer stevie wonder said he would no longer perform in florida or other states with stand-your-ground laws .	singer stevie wonder said he would no longer play in florida or other states with stand-your-ground laws .
chief	president	NN	chief	president	17	10	cureton , an englewood police officer who grew up with marion , said he understood the fire chief 's frustration and the motivation for his actions .	he is an englewood police officer and the local naacp president .
motivation	reason	NN	motivation	reason	22	11	cureton , an englewood police officer who grew up with marion , said he understood the fire chief 's frustration and the motivation for his actions .	he said he understood the fire chief 's anger and the reason for his request .
alter	change	VB	alter	change	5	5	dressel said state lawmakers could alter the law , as they did years ago in banning purchases from south africa when it was under apartheid .	dressel said state lawmakers could change the law .
state	nation	NN	state	nation	2	23	dressel said state lawmakers could alter the law , as they did years ago in banning purchases from south africa when it was under apartheid .	years ago , legislators banned purchases from south africa when it was under apartheid , a system of racial exclusion which targeted that nation 's non-white population .
whites	non-whites	NNS	whites	non-whites	22	22	they did years ago in banning purchases from south africa when it was under apartheid , a system that separated blacks and whites .	they did years ago in boycotting south africa when it was under apartheid , a system of laws that separated whites from non-whites .
put	make	VB	put	make	6	6	it was hired in may to put together an online list of vacant properties .	it was hired in may to make an online list of vacant properties .
relocate	move	VB	relocate	move	8	8	on tuesday , the agency said it would relocate 50 wild horses threatened by drought from an area two hours north of las vegas .	on tuesday , the agency said it would move 50 wild horses threatened by drought from an area two hours north of las vegas .
sustain	keep	VB	sustain	keep	14	14	even with the extra water , the seeps do not provide enough water to sustain them , gorney said .	even with the extra water , the ground does not provide enough water to keep them alive , gorey said .
employ	use	VB	employ	use	6	6	six of the nevada roundups will employ contract helicopters to drive the animals to pens .	six of the nevada roundups will use helicopters to drive the animals to pens .
drive	push	VB	drive	push	10	9	six of the nevada roundups will employ contract helicopters to drive the animals to pens .	six of the nevada roundups will use helicopters to push the animals to pens .
perilous	dangerous	JJ	perilous	dangerous	14	13	he recalled how his 60-year-old grandfather , who lives in mexico , makes a perilous trip each time he visits relatives in the united states .	he said his 60-year-old grandfather , who lives in mexico , makes a dangerous trip each time he visits relatives in the united states .
unclear	clear	JJ	unclear	clear	24	22	as word of the action spread , as many as 30 more young people presented themselves at the border , but their status was unclear .	as word spread , as many as 30 more young people showed up at the border , but their status was not clear .
facility	building	NN	facility	building	5	5	saavedra once occupied an immigration facility in florida and was detained .	saavedra once occupied an immigration building in florida and was jailed .
attempt	try	VB	attempt	try	12	10	if she is ultimately deported , mateo said , she will not attempt another desert crossing .	if she is deported , mateo said she would n't try to cross the border .
symbol	sign	NN	symbol	sign	5	5	nguyen 's bet is a symbol of a sea change underway in vietnam .	nguyen 's bet is a sign of a big change underway in vietnam .
capita	person	NN	capita	person	14	20	disposable income has doubled in vietnam since 2007 , to nearly $ 1,000 per capita , friend said , citing euromonitor data .	the average amount of spending money people have in vietnam has doubled since 2007 , to nearly $ 1,000 per person , friend said .
segregate	separate	VB	segregate	separate	20	6	but with his herd of roughly 4,000 including cattle from mexico , mccan said there 's no good reason to segregate the animals when he sells them .	there 's no good reason to separate the animals when he sells them , he said .
separate	split	VB	separate	split	6	11	there 's no good reason to separate the animals when he sells them , he said .	if the beef has to be labeled , he has to split up the animals when he sells them .
minimal	small	JJ	minimal	small	14	14	backers of the new rules , who say labeling can be done at a minimal cost , are braced for another battle with cattle producers .	backers of the new rules , who say labeling can be done at a small cost , are ready for another battle with cattle producers .
war	fight	NN	war	fight	9	8	the new labeling rules also could ignite a trade war with canada , which is threatening to retaliate .	the new labeling rules also could ignite a fight with canada .
nearly	practically	RB	nearly	practically	16	16	the recently paved streets inside the favela are narrow ; large parts of the slum are nearly in ruins .	the recently paved streets inside the slum are narrow ; large parts of the slum are practically in ruins .
set	put	VBN	set	put	3	3	the government has set aside money for community centers , libraries and a train station .	the government has put aside money for community centers , libraries and a train station .
force	military	NN	force	military	12	7	the cost is a double whammy for taxpayers , because the air force said it costs taxpayers about $ 6 million to train a fighter pilot .	empty cockpits are bad news for the military .
complete	finish	VBP	complete	finish	12	12	air force pilots typically earn about $ 90,000 by the time they complete their 11th year .	air force pilots typically earn about $ 90,000 by the time they finish their 11th year .
civilian	non-military	JJ	civilian	non-military	19	7	dennis prokopowicz , an assistant system chief pilot with jet blue airways , said it will be difficult for civilian pilots to achieve that many hours .	he says it will be difficult for non-military pilots to achieve that many hours .
former	old	JJ	former	old	9	12	ducks , herons and fish are thriving in the former ponds , which are being restored to tidal marshes .	now ducks , fish and birds called herons are living in the old salt ponds .
available	unavailable	JJ	available	unavailable	19	25	because there are no good historical counts , estimates of leopard shark population growth in the bay are n't available .	because there are no good counts of the leopard shark population from the past , estimates of the fish population growth in the bay are unavailable .
predation	predator	NN	predation	predator	5	4	a widespread fungus , fish predation and loss of habitat are decimating them .	a widespread fungus , predator fish and the loss of their habitats are decimating them .
range	area	NN	range	area	18	5	logging was dramatically cut back , and most lumber mills shut down in this part of the mountain range .	most lumber mills in the area closed .
impact	effect	NN	impact	effect	15	15	fresno county sheriff margaret mims worries now about the endangered species act creating an additional impact on funding for law enforcement and public safety .	fresno county sheriff margaret mims worries now about the endangered species act creating an additional effect on funding for law enforcement and public safety .
tape	paperwork	NN	tape	paperwork	10	9	mims later said she was concerned about the added red tape for new or expanding businesses .	mims later said she was concerned about the added paperwork for new or expanding businesses .
species	types	NNS	species	type	6	3	throughout california , more than 300 species of plants and animals are under federal protection more animals than any other state and second-most for plants .	more than 300 types of plants and animals are under federal protection in california .
globe	world	NN	globe	world	14	15	many amphibian species , including those in the sierra , face extinction around the globe from similar conditions , vredenburg said .	many amphibians , including those in the sierra , may be wiped out around the world because of similar conditions , vredenburg said .
sentencing	punishment	NN	sentencing	punishment	1	6	the sentencing phase will begin wednesday at fort meade , maryland .	the process to determine manning 's punishment will begin wednesday at fort meade , maryland .
punishment	sentencing	NN	punishment	sentencing	6	1	the process to determine manning 's punishment will begin wednesday at fort meade , maryland .	the sentencing hearing will begin wednesday at fort meade , maryland .
banner	sign	NN	banner	sign	1	1	one banner read : '' stop the wars expose the lies free bradley manning , '' a reuters video showed .	one sign read : '' stop the wars expose the lies free bradley manning , '' a reuters video showed .
frighten	scare	VB	frighten	scare	15	15	some people were concerned that a guilty verdict on the aiding the enemy charge could frighten other potential officials from leaking information to the media .	some people were concerned that a guilty decision on the aiding the enemy charge could scare other people who wanted to leak military secrets .
verdict	ruling	NN	verdict	ruling	7	7	some people were concerned that a guilty verdict on the aiding the enemy charge could frighten other potential officials from leaking information to the media .	some people were concerned that a guilty ruling on the aiding the enemy charge could scare other people .
decision	ruling	NN	decision	ruling	7	7	some people were concerned that a guilty decision on the aiding the enemy charge could scare other people who wanted to leak military secrets .	some people were concerned that a guilty ruling on the aiding the enemy charge could scare other people .
market	sell	VBP	market	sell	15	18	she bluntly told executives '' to step it up '' to improve the foods they market to children .	she bluntly told executives of food companies '' to step it up '' to improve the foods they sell to children .
backing	support	NN	backing	support	5	3	the administration did secure industry backing for a requirement that restaurant menus list calorie information .	food companies did support putting calorie information on restaurant menus .
marketing	advertising	NN	marketing	advertising	15	15	but many public health advocates believe a more forceful approach is needed to limit food marketing .	but many public health advocates believe a more forceful approach is needed to limit the advertising of less healthy food .
seek	look	VB	seek	look	17	16	a report by the prestigious institute of medicine found in 2005 that television advertising influenced children to seek out unhealthy foods .	a report by the institute of medicine found in 2005 that television advertising influenced children to look for unhealthy foods .
look	seek	VB	look	seek	16	11	a report by the institute of medicine found in 2005 that television advertising influenced children to look for unhealthy foods .	a report in 2005 said that television advertising led children to seek out unhealthy foods like sugar-coated cereals .
minimal	little	JJ	minimal	little	6	8	foods advertised to children should have minimal levels of sugar , salt and fat , and make a '' meaningful contribution '' to diets by containing nutrients .	foods advertised to children should have only a little sugar , salt and fat .
small	little	JJ	small	little	7	8	foods advertised to children should have only small levels of sugar , salt and fat .	foods advertised to children should have only a little sugar , salt and fat .
network	channel	NN	network	channel	23	18	nickelodeon recently turned down a request by four democratic senators to set stricter nutrition standards for the products that are advertised on its network .	four democratic senators recently asked the network to set stricter nutrition standards for the foods advertised on its channel .
antidote	cure	NN	antidote	cure	10	10	now band-e amir also has become the nation 's soothing antidote to the daily horrors elsewhere : improvised bombs , suicide attacks and bribe-hungry police .	now band-e amir also has become the nation 's soothing cure for the daily horrors elsewhere : bombs , suicide attacks and corrupt police .
express	show	VB	express	show	3	3	some did n't express enough tenderness .	some did n't show enough tenderness .
schooling	school	NN	schooling	school	6	20	others say that after years of schooling , they want to enjoy their freedom past age 27 , widely seen here as the proper time to settle down .	others say they want to enjoy their freedom past age 27 since they have spent so many years going to school .
issue	topic	NN	issue	topic	10	10	leta hong fincher is a scholar who has studied the issue .	leta hong fincher is a scholar who has studied the topic .
modest	small	JJ	modest	small	15	17	though the pressure on shengnu looks unlikely to go away any time soon , a modest empowerment backlash has emerged .	though the pressure on shengnu looks unlikely to go away any time soon , there is a small movement pushing against it .
set	place	VB	set	place	13	13	she explained that the loon team needs more data to decide how to set up the solar array and batteries .	ponda explained that the loon team needs more information to decide how to place the set of solar panels and batteries .
money	money-maker	NN	money	money-maker	22	21	bennett speculated the company may be hoping that telecommunications carriers will adopt the idea if google can show it stands to make money .	bennett speculated the company may be hoping that telecommunications carriers will adopt the idea if google can show it is a money-maker .
adopt	take	VB	adopt	take	11	12	bennett speculated the company may be hoping that telecommunications carriers will adopt the idea if google can show it stands to make money .	bennett said google may hope that cell phone companies and others will take up the idea if google can show it is a money-maker .
determine	set	VB	determine	set	20	2	fishermen , not scientists , were the original beneficiaries of the otolith data , which feed population models that help determine catch limits each year .	it helps set catch limits each year .
portrait	picture	NN	portrait	picture	22	19	otoliths reveal age , which when aggregated with the sex , size and locations of capture for many fish , paint a portrait of the population 's health .	when taken together with the sex , size and locations of capture for many fish , they paint a picture of the population 's health .
estimate	calculate	VB	estimate	calculate	4	2	thus , scientists can estimate how much fishermen can catch without causing a whole species collapse .	scientists can calculate how much fishermen can catch without causing a whole species to collapse .
variation	difference	NN	variation	difference	2	2	this huge variation among species is what makes aging otoliths such difficult work .	this huge difference among species is what makes figuring out the age of otoliths such hard work .
aging	age	NN	aging	age	8	11	this huge variation among species is what makes aging otoliths such difficult work .	this huge difference among species is what makes figuring out the age of otoliths such hard work .
form	version	NN	form	version	21	5	the wisp of powder barely enough to be visible to the naked eye is analyzed for oxygen-18 , a slightly heavier form of the usual oxygen-16 .	oxygen-18 is a slightly heavier version of the typical oxygen-16 atom we all know .
usual	typical	JJ	usual	typical	24	8	the wisp of powder barely enough to be visible to the naked eye is analyzed for oxygen-18 , a slightly heavier form of the usual oxygen-16 .	oxygen-18 is a slightly heavier version of the typical oxygen-16 atom we all know .
aid	help	VB	aid	help	9	8	the ultimate goal in cataloging the collection is to aid this wide range of research .	the goal in cataloging the collection is to help all types of research .
unrest	rioting	NN	unrest	rioting	17	14	they concluded that there could be as much as a 56 percent rise in wars and civil unrest by 2050 because of higher temperatures and extreme rainfall patterns .	they concluded that there could be as much as 56 percent more war and rioting by 2050 because of higher temperatures and extreme rainfall patterns .
trivial	minor	JJ	trivial	minor	5	3	study topics ranged from the trivial to the sublime .	topics ranged from minor to monumental .
precipitation	rain	NN	precipitation	rain	24	24	no matter where in the world they looked , and no matter when , the researchers said they observed a link between temperature , precipitation and conflict .	no matter where in the world they looked , and no matter when , the researchers said they observed a link between temperature , rain and conflict .
increase	rise	VB	increase	rise	7	7	they calculated that large-scale group conflict could increase 28 to 56 percent over the next 37 years , while interpersonal violence could increase 8 to 16 percent .	they calculated that large-scale group conflict could rise 28 to 56 percent over the next 37 years .
rise	increase	VB	rise	increase	7	4	they calculated that large-scale group conflict could rise 28 to 56 percent over the next 37 years .	large-scale group conflict could increase 28 to 56 percent over the next 37 years , the decided .
cause	lead	VB	cause	lead	8	8	what they want is for their work to cause more research and planning in the face of global warming .	what they want is for their work to lead to more research and planning as the planet grows warmer .
numerous	several	JJ	numerous	several	7	7	washington the united states closed embassies in numerous muslim countries and warned about travel during august .	washington the united states shut embassies in several muslim countries late last week .
divulge	disclose	VB	divulge	disclose	9	5	the official , however , said he could not divulge details of the plot .	he said he could not disclose details of the plot .
substantial	large	JJ	substantial	large	15	17	according to a report published in the journal pediatrics , diaper need affects a '' substantial '' number of low-income americans .	according to a report published in the journal pediatrics , this is a problem that affects a large number of low-income americans .
expense	cost	NN	expense	cost	24	8	add in the fact that many lower-income families ca n't afford to buy diapers in bulk at stores like costco and target and the expense becomes prohibitive .	many lower-income families also ca n't afford the cost of bulk diapers at stores like costco and target .
bulk	mass	NN	bulk	mass	15	11	add in the fact that many lower-income families ca n't afford to buy diapers in bulk at stores like costco and target and the expense becomes prohibitive .	many families that earn minimum wage ca n't afford to buy mass amounts of diapers at stores like costco and target .
campaign	season	NN	campaign	season	19	9	major league baseball suspended him for an unprecedented 211 games the rest of this season and the entire 2014 campaign for using performance enhancing substances .	that is the length of the rest of this season and all of the 2014 season .
length	period	NN	length	period	3	2	that is the length of the rest of this season and all of the 2014 season .	the suspension period runs through the rest of this season and all of 2014 .
connection	link	NN	connection	link	8	4	twelve other players were given 50-game suspensions in connection with biogenesis , the miami-area doping clinic that supplied high-profile players with banned substances from 2009 until last year .	they all had a link to biogenesis .
serious	big	JJ	serious	big	19	8	the announcement by baseball coincided with rodriguez 's return to the big-league roster after months of rehab for a serious hip injury , his second .	the announcement came as rodriguez returned to the big leagues .
lengthy	long	JJ	lengthy	long	7	9	the announcement monday by mlb capped a lengthy and aggressive probe .	the announcement by the league on monday ended a long and hard-hitting look into the matter .
union	league	NN	union	league	3	6	though the players union has helped the mlb in its effort to clean up the sport , executive director michael weiner said the union would defend rodriguez .	the players union has helped the league in its effort to clean up the sport .
director	head	NN	director	head	18	2	though the players union has helped the mlb in its effort to clean up the sport , executive director michael weiner said the union would defend rodriguez .	but union head michael weiner said the union would defend rodriguez .
story	history	NN	story	history	8	8	baltimore in easton , maryland , an untold story of free african-americans is being dug right out of the ground .	baltimore in easton , maryland , a new history about african-americans is being dug right out of the ground .
history	story	NN	history	story	13	6	archaeologists and historians from two universities and the local area are uncovering the history of the hill .	archaeologists and historians are uncovering the story of an area called the hill .
area	place	NN	area	place	9	7	archaeologists and historians are uncovering the story of an area called the hill .	archaeologists and historians are digging up a place called the hill .
believe	think	VBP	believe	think	1	1	they believe this is the earliest settlement of free african-americans in the united states , dating to 1790 .	they think the hill is the earliest example of free african-americans living together in the united states .
ownership	property	NN	ownership	property	16	16	former slaves founded such settlements , where they enjoyed early emancipation and the chance at property ownership and commerce .	former slaves founded such settlements , where they enjoyed early emancipation and the chance to own property and trade freely .
commerce	trade	NN	commerce	trade	18	18	former slaves founded such settlements , where they enjoyed early emancipation and the chance at property ownership and commerce .	former slaves founded such settlements , where they enjoyed early emancipation and the chance to own property and trade freely .
midst	middle	NN	midst	middle	6	6	researchers and students are in the midst of a three-week dig at one of the hill properties , a site owned by the talbot county women 's club .	researchers and students are in the middle of a three-week dig at one of the hill properties , a site owned by the talbot county women 's club .
team	group	NN	team	group	1	1	the team has committed to spending at least five more years working at the hill .	the group will spend at least five more years working at easton .
site	area	NN	site	area	20	7	priscilla morris , whose family has roots in easton dating to the 1600s , is a regular visitor to the site .	she is a regular visitor to the area .
put	set	VBN	put	set	6	7	moscow complains the united states has put up a missile shield in eastern europe to block russian influence .	one is that the united states has set up a missile shield in eastern europe .
travel	go	VB	travel	go	4	2	instead , he will travel to sweden .	he 'll go to sweden instead .
vat	tub	NN	vat	tub	15	12	young leon began having nightmares in which he was escaping the nazis in a big vat of chocolate as his friends futilely tried to get in .	in the dreams , he was escaping the nazis in a big tub of chocolate as his friends unsuccessfully tried to get in .
voyage	trip	NN	voyage	trip	21	14	another relative who had previously escaped to the west financed the family 's trans-siberian railway trip across russia and a sea voyage from vladivostok to vancouver , canada .	another relative who had previously escaped to the west paid for the family 's trip across russia and a boat trip to canada .
film	movie	NN	film	movie	9	8	as an adult , prochnik became a writer , film editor and director as well as a leader of consciousness-raising workshops .	prochnik grew up to be a writer , movie editor and director .
actually	even	RB	actually	even	18	6	better yet , as the minnesota teenager plays the game more , his memory and processing speed might actually improve .	his memory and thinking speed might even get better as he plays the game more .
yet	even	RB	yet	even	1	6	better yet , his memory and speed might actually get better as he plays the game more .	his memory and thinking speed might even get better as he plays the game more .
comprehensive	thorough	JJ	comprehensive	thorough	5	5	the game would n't replace comprehensive psychological evaluations , but would provide doctors with data to aid diagnosis .	the game would n't replace thorough psychological exams , but would provide doctors with data to aid a diagnosis .
comprehensive	complete	JJ	comprehensive	complete	5	5	the game would n't replace comprehensive psychological evaluations , but would provide doctors with data to aid diagnosis .	the game would n't replace complete psychological exams , but would provide doctors with information to help them decide if a patient had adhd .
thorough	complete	JJ	thorough	complete	5	5	the game would n't replace thorough psychological exams , but would provide doctors with data to aid a diagnosis .	the game would n't replace complete psychological exams , but would provide doctors with information to help them decide if a patient had adhd .
grim	sad	JJ	grim	sad	9	7	at the time , he had just learned a grim fact : more than 7,000 americans had died from texting and driving during the previous year .	and he had just learned something very sad : the year before , more than 7,000 americans had died from texting while driving .
phone	cellphone	NN	phone	cellphone	13	14	then they 're told to pick up a card that looks like a phone and read it out loud .	then , they are told to pick up a card that looks like a cellphone , and read it out loud .
road	track	NN	road	track	7	8	invariably , the car goes off the road and hits somebody 's ankle , foland said .	every time , the car goes off the track and hits somebody 's ankle , foland said .
forecast	forecasting	NN	forecast	forecasting	7	7	a primary goal will be to better forecast the power of a storm , an area where the hurricane center has struggled for decades .	a primary goal will be to improve forecasting how strong a hurricane will become .
intensity	strength	NN	intensity	strength	7	12	a primary goal will be to improve intensity forecasts , an area where the hurricane center has struggled for decades .	a main goal will be to improve forecasts of a hurricane 's strength .
primary	main	JJ	primary	main	1	1	a primary goal will be to improve intensity forecasts , an area where the hurricane center has struggled for decades .	a main goal will be to improve forecasts of a hurricane 's strength .
power	strength	NN	power	strength	9	12	a primary goal will be to better forecast the power of a storm , an area where the hurricane center has struggled for decades .	a main goal will be to improve forecasts of a hurricane 's strength .
become	get	VB	become	get	13	6	a primary goal will be to improve forecasting how strong a hurricane will become .	a main goal will be to get better at telling how strong a hurricane is .
take	use	VB	take	use	7	8	the hwrf also has been programmed to take in doppler radar information from a national oceanic and atmospheric administration -lrb- noaa -rrb- aircraft .	the hwrf model also has been programmed to use radar information from a government weather airplane that flies around the storms .
three-dimensional	3d	JJ	three-dimensional	3d	5	5	the radar should capture a three-dimensional view of how a storm is structured .	the radar should capture a 3d view of how a storm is constructed .
crucial	vital	JJ	crucial	vital	3	3	better projections are crucial because forecasters still are unable to anticipate when a system might rapidly bulk up .	better forecasts are vital because forecasters still are unable to anticipate when a system might rapidly bulk up .
massive	major	JJ	massive	major	8	8	additional funds are to be spent for another massive upgrade by 2015 , when the supercomputers are to be able to conduct almost 2,000 trillion calculations per second .	more money is to be spent for another major upgrade by 2015 .
road	way	NN	road	way	12	8	after about 20 arrests for allegedly disturbing the peace by blocking the road , the load continued .	after being blocked , it continued on its way when police arrested 20 of the protesters .
personnel	employees	NNS	personnel	employee	19	17	he said after the windows began to shatter , a guest ran into the street to flag down resort personnel .	after the windows began to shatter , a guest ran into the street to flag down resort employees , caldwell said .
personnel	workers	NNS	personnel	worker	19	17	he said after the windows began to shatter , a guest ran into the street to flag down resort personnel .	after the windows began to shatter , a guest ran into the street to flag down resort workers , caldwell said .
assess	determine	VB	assess	determine	5	6	firefighters are awaiting engineers to assess the damage the gaping hole caused .	firefighters are waiting for engineers to determine the damage the gaping hole caused .
accelerate	speed	VB	accelerate	speed	11	11	construction , groundwater pumping and drought followed by heavy rain can accelerate the erosion process .	construction , groundwater pumping and drought followed by heavy rain can speed up the erosion .
migrate	move	VB	migrate	move	8	8	the water dissolves limestone , causing sands to migrate through and form a hole on the surface like the neck of an hourglass .	the water dissolves limestone , causing sands to move through and form a hole on the surface .
home	house	NN	home	house	1	1	the home was condemned and bush was declared dead .	the house was condemned , and bush was declared dead .
transit	transportation	NN	transit	transportation	20	16	on monday , to international fanfare , musk unveiled the design of his hyperloop , a $ 6 billion high-speed transit system powered by solar energy .	on monday , musk unveiled the design of his hyperloop , a $ 6 billion high-speed transportation system powered by the sun .
study	research	NN	study	research	5	12	as part of the latest study , he discovered the oldest known coast redwood tree in existence .	sillett discovered the oldest known coast redwood tree in existence during this research .
narrow	small	JJ	narrow	small	8	8	today , coast redwoods exist only along a narrow band from big sur to the oregon border .	today , coast redwoods exist only in a small area of california , up to the oregon border .
atmosphere	air	NN	atmosphere	air	4	9	carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is up 30 percent since the mid-1800s because of the burning of fossil fuels .	there is a lot more carbon dioxide in the air now than in the mid-1800s .
cultivate	grow	VBP	cultivate	grow	19	19	the cotton candy could fetch around $ 6 a pound , though prices would come down if enough growers cultivate the grape .	the cotton candy could fetch around $ 6 a pound , though prices would come down if enough farmers grow the grape .
assistance	help	NN	assistance	help	20	18	and advocates for the disabled say the issue is creating big headaches for those who truly need the canines ' assistance .	supporters of the disabled say this is creating big headaches for those who truly need the animals ' help .
group	organization	NN	group	organization	12	11	the problem has gotten so bad that the nation 's largest service-dog group launched a campaign last week .	it has gotten so bad that the nation 's largest service-dog organization got involved .
claim	say	VBP	claim	say	6	7	florida does not punish people who claim that their dog is a service animal when it is not , said paul edwards .	florida has no punishment for people who say their dog is a service animal , but is n't , said paul edwards .
service	service-dog	NN	service	service-dog	14	16	and there is no law against the sale of merchandise emblazoned with phony '' service dog '' logos .	and there is no law against the sale of collars or harnesses printed with phony '' service-dog '' logos .
dog	service-dog	NN	dog	service-dog	15	16	and there is no law against the sale of merchandise emblazoned with phony '' service dog '' logos .	and there is no law against the sale of collars or harnesses printed with phony '' service-dog '' logos .
service-dog	service	NN	service-dog	service	16	12	and there is no law against the sale of collars or harnesses printed with phony '' service-dog '' logos .	there is no law against selling vests or harnesses printed with phony service dog logos , however .
service-dog	dog	NN	service-dog	dog	16	13	and there is no law against the sale of collars or harnesses printed with phony '' service-dog '' logos .	there is no law against selling vests or harnesses printed with phony service dog logos , however .
country	state	NN	country	state	10	12	few people talk now about democracy or creating a modern country .	not a lot of people talk about democracy or creating a modern state now .
forefront	head	NN	forefront	head	5	5	some who were at the forefront of the 2011 revolution embrace the military action .	some who were at the head of the 2011 revolution support the military action .
laureate	prize	NN	laureate	prize	8	8	among those who accepted a post was nobel laureate and morsi opposition leader mohamed elbaradei , whom mansor named as vice president .	among those who accepted a post was nobel prize winner mohamed elbaradei .
laureate	winner	NN	laureate	winner	8	9	among those who accepted a post was nobel laureate mohamed elbaradei .	among those who accepted a post was nobel prize winner mohamed elbaradei .
impasse	standoff	NN	impasse	standoff	11	11	negotiations between the muslim brotherhood and the military to end the impasse began earlier this month , led by international and domestic mediators .	negotiations between the muslim brotherhood and the military to end the standoff began earlier this month .
sophisticated	advanced	JJ	sophisticated	advanced	11	10	the find adds to the accumulating evidence that neanderthals were more sophisticated than previously thought , contrary to their brutish , club-lugging ape-men image .	the find adds to the evidence that neanderthals were more advanced than previously thought , contrary to their brutish , club lugging ape-men image .
fragment	piece	NN	fragment	piece	7	6	soressi 's group unearthed the first lissoir fragment from the pech-de-l ' aze i excavation site in southwestern france in 2005 .	soressi 's group found the first piece of a lissoir at an excavation site in southwestern france in 2005 .
drab	dull	JJ	drab	dull	16	11	colorful banners from aerospace giants like boeing and northrop grumman hung from the ceiling next to drab , gray models of unmanned aircraft .	colorful banners from big companies hung from the ceiling next to dull , gray models of unmanned aircraft .
therapy	treatment	NN	therapy	treatment	17	20	but he said that in weighing medical experts ' positions on the controversial practice of gay conversion therapy , he decided to sign the bill into law .	but he said he decided to sign it into law after thinking about what doctors had to say about the treatment .
law	bill	NN	law	bill	9	7	but he said he decided to sign it into law after thinking about what doctors had to say about the treatment .	christie said he decided to sign the bill after looking at what doctors said about the treatment .
conservative	moderate	JJ	conservative	moderate	9	8	his past comments set him apart from the more conservative wing of the republican party , which holds that homosexuality is a sin and is a choice .	his past comments set him apart from less moderate parts of the republican party .
clip	video	NN	clip	video	14	8	in addition to the signing statement , christie 's office also distributed a 2011 clip of the governor being interviewed about homosexuality by cnn 's piers morgan .	christie 's office also gave out a 2011 video of the governor being interviewed about homosexuality on cnn .
homosexual	gay	JJ	homosexual	gay	18	15	but christie said in the interview he believed that gay people were born with the tendency to be homosexual .	but christie also said he believed that people were born with the likelihood to be gay .
broad	wide	JJ	broad	wide	3	3	the bill won broad support in the new jersey legislature despite objections from supporters of the practice , who said it infringes on the rights of parents .	the bill won wide support from new jersey lawmakers .
bill	law	NN	bill	law	1	7	the bill won broad support in the new jersey legislature despite objections from supporters of the practice , who said it infringes on the rights of parents .	but supporters of the practice said the law interferes with parents ' rights .
same-sex	gay	JJ	same-sex	gay	10	10	he vetoed a bill last year that would have allowed same-sex marriage in new jersey .	he stopped a bill last year that would have allowed gay marriage in new jersey .
element	aspect	NN	element	aspect	3	3	the only remarkable element among the trappings of this beginners ' yoga class was its location : inside the barbed wire fence of the cook county jail .	the only remarkable aspect of this beginners yoga class was its location : inside the barbed wire fence of the cook county jail .
element	thing	NN	element	thing	3	3	the only remarkable element among the trappings of this beginners ' yoga class was its location : inside the barbed wire fence of the cook county jail .	the only unusual thing about this beginners ' yoga class was where it was held : inside the cook county jail .
aspect	thing	NN	aspect	thing	3	3	the only remarkable aspect of this beginners yoga class was its location : inside the barbed wire fence of the cook county jail .	the only unusual thing about this beginners ' yoga class was where it was held : inside the cook county jail .
jail	prison	NN	jail	prison	10	10	instead of yoga pants , they wore pink and gray jail uniforms .	instead of yoga pants , they wore pink and gray prison uniforms .
greater	better	JJR	greater	better	13	13	researchers found that prisoners who embarked on a 10-week yoga course also showed greater accuracy in a computer test of impulsivity and attention .	researchers found that prisoners who embarked on a 10-week yoga course also did better in a computer test of impulsivity and attention .
vehicle	car	NN	vehicle	car	5	7	the bigger batter extends the vehicle 's range to over 200 miles on one charge , more than double that of other electric cars .	the bigger batter lets you drive the car over 200 miles on one charge .
long-term	long	JJ	long-term	long	15	21	though the complaint targets one product , it speaks to a growing concern over the long-term health consequences of america 's ever-evolving food supply .	however , it shows a growing concern over how america 's changing food supply can affect people 's health over the long term .
manufacturer	maker	NN	manufacturer	maker	7	6	the company is the world 's largest manufacturer of genetically modified seeds .	it is the world 's largest maker of gmo seeds .
assume	think	VB	assume	think	5	5	it argues that consumers will assume that just because a product contains gmos , it is somehow inferior or not as safe .	they say that people will think that products containing gmos are not as safe .
concern	worry	NN	concern	worry	3	1	part of the concern over gmos , craggs-dino said , is that many are modified with dna from other species .	one worry , craggs-dino said , is that many gmos use dna from other species .
walk	go	VB	walk	go	11	6	manning 's sentence means the 25-year-old former intelligence analyst could eventually walk out of prison as a free , albeit much older , man .	so the former soldier could eventually go free .
man	manning	NN	man	manning	12	2	they said the leaks were also the actions of a troubled young man who was under considerable pressure .	they said manning was under a lot of pressure at the time .
brig	jail	NN	brig	jail	20	19	another 112 days will be subtracted to compensate for the severe treatment he received while held at a marine corps brig .	another 112 days will be subtracted for the bad treatment he received while being held in a marine corps jail .
study	survey	VB	study	survey	12	14	los angeles planetary scientists dream of sending a geologist to mars to study its rocks by hand .	los angeles scientists who study planets dream of sending a geologist to mars to survey its rocks .
long	old	JJ	long	old	15	4	researchers generally measure relative amounts of pairs of radioactive elements in rocks to gauge how long a rock has been around since it fully crystallized .	to figure out how old a rock is , scientists measure certain radioactive elements inside it .
intact	unchanged	JJ	intact	unchanged	18	16	the shock from that impact muddled up the mineral structure inside , while keeping the chemicals themselves mostly intact .	the shock had muddled up the mineral structure inside , though the chemicals themselves were mostly unchanged .
wealthy	rich	JJ	wealthy	rich	5	5	he 's not the only wealthy ceo promoting the power of technology to change the world .	he 's not the only rich ceo who thinks technology can change the world .
prominent	well-known	JJ	prominent	well-known	7	7	it makes him one of the most prominent advocates for silicon valley 's unique blend of business and altruism .	it makes him one of the most well-known voices for silicon valley 's unusual blend of business and doing good .
flotilla	fleet	NN	flotilla	fleet	15	4	google is also pursuing its own ideas for delivering cheap internet service , including a flotilla of radio-equipped high-altitude balloons under its project loon .	those include using a fleet of radio-equipped high-altitude balloons under its project loon .
celebrity	fame	NN	celebrity	fame	19	11	while page more often shuns the public spotlight , musk and zuckerberg have both learned to leverage their own celebrity .	but musk and zuckerberg have both learned to use their own fame .
difficulty	problem	NN	difficulty	problem	9	6	like all people with autism , the children had difficulty with social interactions .	the children with autism had one problem all people with autism have .
exceptional	extreme	JJ	exceptional	extreme	5	3	but people can also have exceptional skills or talents , known as '' savant '' abilities .	it can involve extreme retardation .
stunning	amazing	JJ	stunning	amazing	4	4	or they may have stunning visual memories , remembering , for instance , how many windows are in a skyscraper seen only once .	or they may have amazing visual memory : for example , they may remember how many windows are in a skyscraper they 've only seen once .
believe	suspect	VBP	believe	suspect	3	1	but the researchers believe there is a biological basis , as well .	they suspect there is some biological difference as well .
significantly	much	RB	significantly	much	9	9	on standardized math tests , the children with autism significantly outperformed the others .	on math tests , the children with autism did much better than the others .
autistic	non-autistic	JJ	autistic	non-autistic	13	6	the average test score of the control group was 100 ; for the autistic group , it was 125 .	the average test score of the non-autistic group was 100 ; for the children with autism , it was 125 .
fire-proofing	fire	NN	fire-proofing	fire	6	9	thousands of communities have enacted strong fire-proofing measures , but many more go without protection , or shelve existing plans for lack of money or political will .	many states have taken strong measures to protect against fire .
firefighting	fire	NN	firefighting	fire	26	11	in 2011 , the state also began charging rural dwellers a protection fee of $ 150 that has netted some $ 84 million for its strained firefighting budget .	in 2011 , the state also began charging rural residents a fire protection fee of $ 150 .
atmosphere	mood	NN	atmosphere	mood	6	3	daniels said she noticed a different atmosphere saturday than what she experienced in the aug .	daniels said the mood was different saturday than in 1963 .
assemble	gather	VB	assemble	gather	23	20	melanie marshall , 34 , daniels ' daughter , said the saturday 's event gave her a greater appreciation for the right to assemble .	melanie marshall , daniels ' daughter , said saturday 's event gave her a greater appreciation for the right to gather peacefully .
minimize	reduce	VB	minimize	reduce	15	7	head start directors across the country have struggled to pare costs in ways that would minimize the impact on children .	head start directors have tried not to reduce the number of children they serve .
cut	reduce	VB	cut	reduce	12	7	head start directors across the country have struggled to find ways to cut costs without reducing the number of children served .	head start directors have tried not to reduce the number of children they serve .
reduce	drop	VB	reduce	drop	7	8	head start directors have tried not to reduce the number of children they serve .	head start programs have tried hard not to drop children .
cut	reduced	VBN	cut	reduce	5	2	for instance , administrators have cut staff , ordered furloughs , trimmed pensions , shortened school years , ended summer programs and held fundraisers .	administrators have reduced their staff , ordered unpaid leave and trimmed pensions .
substantial	major	JJ	substantial	major	10	7	supporters of the program say research shows that it offers substantial long-term benefits in educational attainment , earnings and crime reduction .	supporters of the program say it offers major long-term benefits .
district	area	NN	district	area	6	5	the inspectors traveled to the muadhamiya district , southwest of damascus .	the inspectors traveled to an area southwest of the capital damascus .
onslaught	attack	NN	onslaught	attack	26	13	it was not clear why the team initially chose to visit muadhamiya , where about 80 people were reported killed in last week 's suspected chemical onslaught .	about 80 people were reported killed there in last week 's suspected chemical attack .
abroad	overseas	RB	abroad	overseas	6	11	the second summer they often go abroad , on more challenging trips .	the second summer they go on more challenging trips , often overseas .
finish	complete	VB	finish	complete	11	14	jefferson said that now more than half are on track to finish college .	jefferson said that now even more teens in the program are on track to complete college .
largest	biggest	JJS	largest	biggest	7	7	still , the stubborn fire became the largest active wildfire in the united states and the 7th-largest in the state 's recorded history dating back 81 years .	still , the stubborn fire became the biggest active wildfire in the united states , and the 11th-largest in the state 's recorded history dating back 81 years .
biggest	largest	JJS	biggest	largest	7	6	still , the stubborn fire became the biggest active wildfire in the united states , and the 11th-largest in the state 's recorded history dating back 81 years .	still , the fire became the largest current wildfire in the united states .
fire	blaze	NN	fire	blaze	4	3	still , the stubborn fire became the largest active wildfire in the united states and the 7th-largest in the state 's recorded history dating back 81 years .	still , the blaze became the biggest current wildfire in the united states .
major	large	JJ	major	large	16	18	brown visited monday with some of the firefighters battling the biggest of california 's nearly dozen major wildfires .	on monday , brown visited with some of the firefighters battling the biggest of california 's nearly dozen large wildfires .
even	also	RB	even	also	13	2	the water was moved to other reservoirs in hopes of building up an even bigger supply .	the utility also sped up sending its water to other reservoirs .
finalize	finish	VB	finalize	finish	14	14	famed architect bernard maybeck was one of the locals dispatched to the area to finalize the site , news reports at the time said .	famed architect bernard maybeck was one of the locals dispatched to the area to finish the site , according to news reports of the time .
solace	comfort	NN	solace	comfort	19	19	crews were able to save many historical items such as documents and photographs , but it was of little solace to local families .	crews were able to save many historical items such as documents and photographs , but it was of little comfort to local families .
jose-run	jose	NN	jose-run	jose	2	1	the san jose-run family camp east of groveland , neighbors to the berkeley camp , also saw 14 of its 67 tents destroyed .	san jose 's family camp east of groveland also had 14 of its 67 tents destroyed .
section	part	NN	section	part	2	2	a small section of the yosemite back country on the western edge of the park has also burned , but tourist destinations remain open .	a small part of the yosemite back country on the western edge of the park also burned .
conviction	belief	NN	conviction	belief	4	4	he returned with the conviction that food production was a greater need .	he returned with the belief that food was a greater need .
educate	teach	VB	educate	teach	7	7	the gardens here would serve mostly to educate students ; the gardens in haiti would provide dinner .	the gardens here would serve mostly to teach students .
shorter	less	JJR	shorter	less	8	2	and it can yield more food in a shorter time and also fish .	it requires less space , less energy and less water than conventional farming .
colleague	coworker	NN	colleague	coworker	11	11	next to join the cause was charles oliphant , a former colleague of morgan 's , who was between jobs .	next to join the cause was charles oliphant , a former coworker of morgan 's .
nutrient-rich	rich	JJ	nutrient-rich	rich	0	1	nutrient-rich water from the tank flows into rows of plastic pipes fitted with holes like a flute , where lettuce seedlings and bunches of basil grow .	water rich with minerals from the tank flows into rows of plastic pipes fitted with holes like a flute .
outrage	anger	NN	outrage	anger	5	1	over the years , legitimate outrage over discrimination devolved into '' excuse-making for criminal behavior , '' obama said .	real anger over discrimination has turned into something else .
attack	strike	NN	attack	strike	5	8	administration officials have described the attack as a moral outrage and suggested that a military response is justified .	white house officials have suggested that a military strike is justified .
think	view	NN	think	view	3	9	meanwhile , a think tank put a full-page advertisement in the wall street journal .	meanwhile , a group in washington took an opposite view .
employ	hire	VB	employ	hire	5	3	the fast-food industry used to employ mostly younger people just trying to make some extra money as they went through school .	restaurants used to hire mostly younger people just trying to make pocket money .
distinct	unique	JJ	distinct	unique	4	3	but it holds a distinct niche in minnesota and likely the nation .	but it is unique in minnesota and maybe the nation for now .
well	even	RB	well	even	13	8	but it holds a distinct niche in minnesota and perhaps the nation as well for now .	but it is one-of-a-kind in minnesota and maybe even the nation for now .
unique	one-of-a-kind	JJ	unique	one-of-a-kind	3	3	but it is unique in minnesota and maybe the nation for now .	but it is one-of-a-kind in minnesota and maybe even the nation for now .
sell	market	VB	sell	market	18	19	and then there 's the group of urban teenagers , who are learning to harvest , cook and sell the plants that fed their ancestors .	and then there 's the group of city teenagers who are learning to harvest , cook and bring to market the plants that fed their ancestors .
market	sell	VB	market	sell	19	10	and then there 's the group of city teenagers who are learning to harvest , cook and bring to market the plants that fed their ancestors .	they are there to learn to harvest , cook and sell the plants that fed their ancestors .
cultivate	grow	VB	cultivate	grow	9	9	it 's well-known that indians were the first to cultivate pumpkins , beans , corn and squash .	it 's well-known that indians were the first to grow pumpkins , beans , corn and squash .
variety	type	NN	variety	type	4	3	that includes a tobacco variety that has been around 600 years , said ernie whiteman , the project 's cultural interpreter .	that includes a type of tobacco that has been around for 600 years .
type	kind	NN	type	kind	3	3	that includes a type of tobacco that has been around for 600 years .	that includes a kind of tobacco that has been around for 600 years .
booth	stand	NN	booth	stand	8	8	he also sometimes staffs the farm 's vegetable booth at the midtown farmers market in minneapolis .	he sometimes works at the farm 's vegetable stand at a farmers market in minneapolis .
extra	extra-long	JJ	extra	extra-long	13	11	at some parks , jugglers and other entertainers are dispatched where lines are extra long .	at some parks , jugglers and other entertainers are sent to extra-long lines .
see	watch	VB	see	watch	5	5	visitors waiting in line can see a 25-minute video of extreme sports , such as bungee jumping and mountain biking .	visitors waiting in line can watch a video of bungee jumpers and mountain bikers .
latter	last	JJ	latter	last	3	3	it was the latter objective that led to the ban a decade ago .	it was that last concern which led to the ban a decade ago .
initially	originally	RB	initially	originally	10	10	councilman jose huizar , who sponsored the new regulations , initially hoped to permit murals in all areas of the city .	councilman jose huizar , who sponsored the new regulations , originally hoped to see murals permitted in all areas of the city .
teens	teenagers	NNS	teens	teenager	9	9	in 1999 , slightly more than 52 percent of teens 16 to 19 worked a summer job .	in 1999 , slightly more than 52 percent of teenagers 16 to 19 worked a summer job .
employment	job	NN	employment	job	4	1	the picture these teen employment statistics provide looks even worse when viewed through the complex prism of race .	the job picture looks even worse when broken down by race .
rarely	seldom	RB	rarely	seldom	21	19	mexico city flip through the print publications exalting the activities of mexico 's high society and there 's one thing you rarely find : dark-skinned people .	mexico city flip through the magazines exalting the activities of mexico 's well-to-do and there 's one thing you seldom find : dark-skinned people .
issue	problem	NN	issue	problem	1	1	the issue came to the fore this month .	the problem came up this month .
obvious	clear	JJ	obvious	clear	12	8	magazine editor tamara de anda said she had never seen anything so obvious .	she says she 's never seen anything so clear .
harsh	severe	JJ	harsh	severe	5	5	it might seem like a harsh judgment .	it might seem like a severe judgment .
moreover	also	RB	moreover	also	0	0	moreover , an estimated 450,000 afro-mexicans live mostly along the coasts .	also , an estimated 450,000 afro-mexicans live mostly along the coasts .
substantial	great	JJ	substantial	great	8	8	but the distance between legalities and practice is substantial , said mario arriagada cuadriello , a doctoral candidate in comparative politics at the london school of economics .	but the distance between law and practice is great , said mario arriagada cuadriello at the london school of economics .
prominent	top	JJ	prominent	top	8	7	jose vasconcelos is one of mexico 's most prominent intellectuals from the early 20th century .	jose vasconcelos was one of mexico 's top thinkers in the early 20th century .
indigenous	native	JJ	indigenous	native	0	2	indigenous mexicans rarely appear in media and are treated as a class apart , although the discrimination is closely tied to economic conditions .	mexicans of native background rarely appear in media and are treated as a class apart .
native	indigenous	JJ	native	indigenous	2	0	mexicans of native background rarely appear in media and are treated as a class apart .	indigenous mexicans rarely appear in media and are treated as a class apart .
huge	wide	JJ	huge	wide	6	7	the area of the mine is huge and bursting with lakes and streams .	the area of the mine is a wide green stretch bursting with lakes and streams .
evidence	sign	NN	evidence	sign	14	4	a tiny camp , a dot in the alaskan wilderness , is the only evidence of what could become one of the world 's biggest mining operations .	it is the only sign so far of what could become the world 's biggest mining project .
mining	mine	NN	mining	mine	25	10	a tiny camp , a dot in the alaskan wilderness , is the only evidence of what could become one of the world 's biggest mining operations .	so far , it is the only sign of the mine project .
planet	world	NN	planet	world	18	16	the pebble partnership says the region 's deposit is one of the largest of its kind on the planet .	the pebble partnership says the region has one of the biggest deposits of minerals in the world .
sensitive	fragile	JJ	sensitive	fragile	17	15	there 's little activity except pebble partnership going to work on testing core samples and studying the sensitive area they hope represents a massive financial windfall .	there 's little activity , aside from pebble partnership testing core samples and studying the fragile area .
area	ground	NN	area	ground	18	11	there 's little activity except pebble partnership going to work on testing core samples and studying the sensitive area they hope represents a massive financial windfall .	there 's little activity , aside from pebble partnership testing the ground .
class	lesson	NN	class	lesson	6	7	and while they do n't attend class on mondays , teachers do .	they are there for staff development , lesson planning and technology training .
elsewhere	anywhere	RB	elsewhere	anywhere	18	18	officials in these four-day districts make no apologies and insist their students will hold their own against any elsewhere .	officials in these four-day districts make no apologies and insist their students will hold their own against students anywhere .
classroom	school	NN	classroom	school	26	3	a big mistake , said jennifer davis , president of the national center on time &amp; amp ; learning , a boston-based group that advocates more classroom time .	students going to school for four days is a big mistake , said jennifer davis .
website	internet	NN	website	internet	11	11	nasa urged sky watchers to share their launch pictures through the website flickr , and the photos and sighting reports quickly poured in .	nasa urged sky watchers to share their launch pictures on the internet .
last	take	VB	last	take	7	6	the $ 280 million moon-orbiting mission will last six months and end with a suicide plunge into the moon for ladee .	in the end , ladee will take a suicide plunge into the moon .
momentous	important	JJ	momentous	important	3	3	it was a momentous night for wallops , which was making its first deep-space liftoff .	it was an important night for wallops , which was making its first deep-space liftoff .
ire	anger	NN	ire	anger	5	5	but the subject of their ire was not tobacco .	but the subject of their anger was not tobacco .
contend	say	VBP	contend	say	3	3	energy drink companies contend the effort is misguided and overstates the health risk of caffeine to teenagers .	energy drink companies say the senators overstate the health risk of caffeine to teenagers .
activity	exercise	NN	activity	exercise	22	21	they have urged high school and college sports organizations to educate their athletes on the risks of combining the beverages with physical activity .	they have urged high school and college sports organizations to educate their athletes on the risks of combining the drinks with exercise .
unsafe	safe	JJ	unsafe	safe	9	10	medical professionals tend to agree that energy drinks are unsafe for minors , who are more vulnerable to adverse health effects from large amounts of caffeine .	medical professionals tend to agree that energy drinks are not safe for minors .
safe	unsafe	JJ	safe	unsafe	10	8	medical professionals tend to agree that energy drinks are not safe for minors .	doctors tend to agree that energy drinks are unsafe for minors .
consume	drink	VBP	consume	drink	8	8	he and other industry officials argued that teens consume far more caffeine from coffee , tea and soft drinks .	he and other industry officials said that teens drink far more caffeine from coffee , tea and soft drinks .
option	possibility	NN	option	possibility	6	11	going back illegally is also an option , pinzon admits .	but going back to the united states illegally is also a possibility , she admits .
only	not	RB	only	not	3	3	the poll indicated only 19 percent of the population backs the idea of military action with the united states .	the poll showed not even one-fifth of the population backs the idea of military action .
unfamiliar	unusual	JJ	unfamiliar	unusual	3	1	anchorage , alaska unfamiliar items washed out on the beach near the bering sea village of quinhagak about five years ago .	anchorage unusual pieces of wood washed up on the beach near the village of quinhagak in western alaska about five years ago .
good	excellent	JJ	good	excellent	19	18	he explained that because the ground has been frozen for the whole time , the artifacts are in very good condition .	the professor explained that because the ground has been frozen the whole time , the artifacts are in excellent shape .
tell	reveal	VB	tell	reveal	9	9	that 's something knecht hopes the old village can tell us .	that 's something knecht hopes the old village can reveal .
photo	picture	NN	photo	picture	13	14	under a restrictive new voter id law in north carolina , a state-issued photo id is required for voting as of the 2016 election .	a new north carolina law says people need to get an id with a picture from the state to be allowed to vote .
picture	photo	NN	picture	photo	14	11	a new north carolina law says people need to get an id with a picture from the state to be allowed to vote .	a new north carolina law says people need to get an photo id from the state to be allowed to vote .
contend	argue	VBP	contend	argue	3	3	civil rights groups contend that the bureaucratic obstacles are a part of a blatant attempt to make it difficult for democratic-leaning voters to obtain ids needed to vote .	civil rights groups argue that the obstacles are an obvious attempt to make it difficult for democratic-leaning voters to obtain ids needed to vote .
blatant	obvious	JJ	blatant	obvious	13	9	civil rights groups contend that the bureaucratic obstacles are a part of a blatant attempt to make it difficult for democratic-leaning voters to obtain ids needed to vote .	civil rights groups argue that the obstacles are an obvious attempt to make it difficult for democratic-leaning voters to obtain ids needed to vote .
obtain	get	VB	obtain	get	23	10	civil rights groups contend that the bureaucratic obstacles are a part of a blatant attempt to make it difficult for democratic-leaning voters to obtain ids needed to vote .	they want to make it difficult for democratic-leaning voters to get the ids needed to vote , the groups claim .
contend	claim	VBP	contend	claim	3	19	civil rights groups contend that the bureaucratic obstacles are a part of a blatant attempt to make it difficult for democratic-leaning voters to obtain ids needed to vote .	they want to make it difficult for democratic-leaning voters to get the ids needed to vote , the groups claim .
argue	claim	VBP	argue	claim	3	19	civil rights groups argue that the obstacles are an obvious attempt to make it difficult for democratic-leaning voters to obtain ids needed to vote .	they want to make it difficult for democratic-leaning voters to get the ids needed to vote , the groups claim .
locate	track	VB	locate	track	10	8	now , because of the new law , she must locate several other documents , a daunting challenge for someone her age .	because of the new law , she must track down several other papers .
elderly	old	JJ	elderly	old	8	8	many are young , poor , african-american or elderly .	many are young , poor , african-american or old .
display	screen	NN	display	screen	6	5	the 5c has a 4-inch retina display and is powered by apple 's a6 chip .	the 5c has a 4-inch screen and is powered by apple 's a6 chip .
comply	follow	VB	comply	follow	14	13	he later added that any agreement must include binding consequences if syria fails to comply , and lawmakers moved to rewrite pending legislation along the same lines .	kerry said that any agreement must include binding consequences if syria fails to follow through .
authority	permission	NN	authority	permission	20	21	earlier , senate republican leader mitch mcconnell became the first congressional leader to come out against legislation giving the president authority for limited strikes .	senate republican leader mitch mcconnell of kentucky on tuesday became the first congressional leader to come out against giving the president permission to attack syria .
shortage	lack	NN	shortage	lack	2	2	and a shortage of foreign language instructors often prevents schools from hiring teachers , the education secretary added .	and a lack of foreign language instructors often prevents schools from hiring teachers , according to education secretary arne duncan .
guest	guest-teacher	NN	guest	guest-teacher	21	14	farther north , the university of north carolina 's center for international understanding is in its fourth year of promoting the guest teacher program .	farther north , the university of north carolina has been a fan of the guest-teacher program for four years .
teacher	guest-teacher	NN	teacher	guest-teacher	22	14	farther north , the university of north carolina 's center for international understanding is in its fourth year of promoting the guest teacher program .	farther north , the university of north carolina has been a fan of the guest-teacher program for four years .
select	choose	VB	select	choose	5	3	the council helped interview and select the guest teachers .	the council helped choose the guest teachers .
comparable	similar	JJ	comparable	similar	18	18	that same year , it rolled out its ap program in chinese language and culture , which is comparable to second-year college-level chinese .	that same year , it rolled out its ap program in chinese language and culture , which is similar to second-year college-level chinese .
exam	test	NN	exam	test	9	7	the number of students who take the ap chinese exam grew from 3,261 in 2007 to 9,357 in 2012 .	three thousand students took the ap chinese test in 2007 .
ballot	vote	NN	ballot	vote	6	8	opponents are hoping to qualify a ballot initiative in 2014 that would repeal some of the provisions .	gun control opponents are hoping to organize another vote in 2014 that would do away with some of the provisions .
suit	lawsuit	NN	suit	lawsuit	7	8	a group of sheriffs has also filed suit to overturn the legislation .	a group of sheriffs has also filed a lawsuit to overturn the gun laws .
detect	spot	VB	detect	spot	9	6	if the bird-size eye in the sky can accurately detect such pools , it could save mosquito-fighters time , effort and money .	if the bird-size drone can accurately spot such pools , it could save mosquito-fighters time , effort and money .
effective	good	JJ	effective	good	7	7	whether or not the drone proves an effective mosquito hunter , the test shows how unmanned aerial vehicles or uavs are quickly changing .	whether the drone proves to be a good mosquito hunter or not , the test shows how unmanned planes are quickly changing .
monitor	track	VB	monitor	track	5	5	they 've been used to monitor wildfires in california .	they 've been used to track wildfires in california .
operation	work	NN	operation	work	19	4	if it proves useful in the keys , it will be helping florida 's largest and most challenging mosquito-control operation .	if the maveric does work , it will be used to fight florida 's biggest mosquito problem .
difficult	tricky	JJ	difficult	tricky	16	16	that 's left people like kusum jariwal , proud mother of the bride , in a difficult situation .	that 's left people like kusum jariwal , proud mother of the bride , in a tricky situation .
solid-gold	solid	JJ	solid-gold	solid	11	15	it 's evidenced in a love of glitter , be it solid-gold furniture , cricket bats , idols , temple doors or chain-mail shirts worth millions of dollars .	one can find furniture , cricket bats , religious statues and temple doors made of solid gold .
point	thing	NN	point	thing	2	7	on one point everyone in the family agrees : indians will never stop buying the stuff .	everyone in the family agrees on one thing : indians will never stop buying the stuff .
inspect	examine	VB	inspect	examine	20	9	under the agreement , inspectors from the international body that monitors compliance with chemical weapons bans would be able to inspect any sites in syria immediately .	the agreement says international inspectors would be able to examine any sites in syria immediately .
development	event	NN	development	event	4	4	it marks a remarkable development in the 30-month syrian civil war .	it is a remarkable event in the 30-month syrian civil war .
ton	tonne	NN	ton	tonne	2	1	a metric ton is about 2,200 pounds .	a tonne is a metric measure equal to about 2,200 pounds .
measure	measurement	NN	measure	measurement	5	5	a tonne is a metric measure equal to about 2,200 pounds .	a tonne is a metric measurement equal to about 2,200 pounds .
enforcement	police	NN	enforcement	police	14	2	the tentative death toll from the flooding rose to six as larimer county law enforcement officials said an 80-year-old woman had probably been killed .	larimer county police said an 80-year-old woman had probably been killed .
growth	rise	NN	growth	rise	8	6	schulz , of larimer county , attributed the growth in the numbers of missing to growing concern from relatives and friends .	larimer county 's schulz attributed the rise in the numbers of missing to growing concern from relatives and friends .
rise	growth	NN	rise	growth	6	6	larimer county 's schulz attributed the rise in the numbers of missing to growing concern from relatives and friends .	larimer county 's schulz attributed the growth in the numbers of missing to growing concern from relatives and friends .
identification	id	NN	identification	id	21	13	a federal law enforcement official said alexis was believed to have gotten into the navy yard by using someone else 's identification card .	police think alexis got into the navy yard by using someone else 's id card , a law enforcement official said .
someone	somebody	NN	someone	somebody	18	4	a federal law enforcement official said alexis was believed to have gotten into the navy yard by using someone else 's identification card .	police think alexis used somebody else 's id to get into the navy yard .
often	sometimes	RB	often	sometimes	14	9	he says he found help at the chief seattle club , which eased the often difficult transition from living on the reservation to life in a large city .	he says the chief seattle club helped ease the sometimes difficult transition from living on the reservation to life in a large city .
problem	trouble	NN	problem	trouble	18	5	about half the cases are related to native issues , such as a probate dispute or a border-crossing problem .	common ones are inheritances or trouble crossing over from the reservation .
refer	send	VB	refer	send	18	10	in cases in which advice is sought on a criminal matter , the lawyers at the clinic can refer clients to a criminal attorney .	when it 's a criminal case , the clinic can send clients to a criminal attorney .
matter	case	NN	matter	case	10	5	in cases in which advice is sought on a criminal matter , the lawyers at the clinic can refer clients to a criminal attorney .	when it 's a criminal case , the clinic can send clients to a criminal attorney .
occur	happen	VB	occur	happen	4	4	their crimes did n't occur because they had chosen a life of crime , he said .	their crimes did n't happen because they chose a life of crime , said forquera , who comes from the juaneno band of california mission indians .
impoverished	poor	JJ	impoverished	poor	21	21	growing up on the fond du lac reservation of northern minnesota , dunlap said , he never knew his family was impoverished .	growing up on the fond du lac reservation of northern minnesota , dunlap said , he never knew his family was poor .
vessel	ship	NN	vessel	ship	8	8	the operation to straighten the 300-meter , 114,000-ton vessel by 65 degrees took 19 hours .	the operation to straighten the 300-meter , 114,000-ton ship took 19 hours .
confident	sure	JJ	confident	sure	13	2	franco porcellacchia , an engineer overseeing operations for owner costa crociere , was confident it could all be done in the first half of next year .	he was sure it could all be done in the first half of next year .
toxic	poisonous	JJ	toxic	poisonous	7	3	instead , there was no release of toxic liquids .	instead , no poisonous liquids were released .
seawater	sea	NN	seawater	sea	2	2	still , seawater inside its hull is thought to have been contaminated by leftover fuel , chemicals and rotting food on board .	still , sea water inside its hull is thought to have been contaminated by leftover fuel , chemicals and rotting food on board .
board	body	NN	board	body	21	18	still , seawater inside its hull is thought to have been contaminated by leftover fuel , chemicals and rotting food on board .	still , leftover fuel , chemicals and rotting food were thought to have dirtied the seawater inside the body of the ship .
sea	seawater	NN	sea	seawater	2	15	still , sea water inside its hull is thought to have been contaminated by leftover fuel , chemicals and rotting food on board .	still , leftover fuel , chemicals and rotting food were thought to have dirtied the seawater inside the body of the ship .
segment	part	NN	segment	part	18	8	the machine will soon be shipped to south korea , where it will fabricate the cone-shaped final fuselage segment for boeing 's 787 dreamliner .	there , boeing will use it to make part of its 787 dreamliner plane .
astounding	amazing	JJ	astounding	amazing	9	5	as it zipped around , the machine reached an astounding top speed : 595 pounds of carbon fiber laid down per hour .	the machine can reach an amazing top speed : 595 pounds of carbon fiber laid down per hour .
trade	industry	NN	trade	industry	23	27	that is '' a very large number , probably the fastest we 've seen , '' said jeff sloan , editor-in-chief of the trade magazine high performance composites .	that is '' a very large number , probably the fastest we 've seen , '' said jeff sloan , a journalist who writes about the composite industry .
demo	demonstration	NN	demo	demonstration	15	8	the smallest version of the custom-built afp machine , the one used in the recent demo , costs $ 5 million .	the custom-built afp machine used in the recent demonstration is electroimpact 's smallest model .
way	direction	NN	way	direction	18	17	now , though , astronomers have discovered something new and mysterious : some planetary nebulae in the milky way galaxy 's central bulge are strangely aligned .	recently , scientists discovered something mysterious about some nebulae : they all line up in the same direction .
powerful	strong	JJ	powerful	strong	13	12	like the magnetized nails , they would have been unable to resist a powerful magnetic force .	just like magnetized nails , they would have been shifted by a strong magnetic force .
galactic	galaxy	NN	galactic	galaxy	8	8	such a force may have existed in the galactic bulge around when it was forming stars , about 8 to 13 billion years ago .	such a force may have existed in the galaxy 's center about 8 to 13 billion years ago .
snub	insult	NN	snub	insult	9	9	a white house spokesman sought to downplay the diplomatic snub by a key ally and trading partner .	a white house spokesman sought to downplay the diplomatic insult by a key ally and trading partner .
harsher	tougher	JJR	harsher	tougher	9	9	a statement from the brazilian president 's office was harsher .	a statement from the brazilian president 's office was tougher .
meeting	gathering	NN	meeting	gathering	2	11	at a meeting this month with top nations in russia , he added a meeting with rousseff to his schedule and offered to address her concerns .	he added a meeting with rousseff to his schedule at a gathering of nations in russia this month .
auto	car	NN	auto	car	10	3	toyoda '' helped blaze a new trail in the way auto companies are run , '' kendall said .	toyoda showed how car companies can be less wasteful , said leslie kendall of the petersen automotive museum .
subsidiary	branch	NN	subsidiary	branch	13	14	about a year later he moved to the company 's newly established automotive subsidiary .	about a year later , he moved to the company 's newly established automotive branch .
branch	division	NN	branch	division	14	13	about a year later , he moved to the company 's newly established automotive branch .	about a year later , he moved to the company 's new car-making division .
director	leader	NN	director	leader	10	7	he rose in the executive ranks , becoming a toyota director by 1945 .	he rose quickly , becoming a company leader by 1945 .
sedan	car	NN	sedan	car	14	15	at first , toyota pinned its hopes on a slow , dull , four-door sedan called the toyopet crown .	at first , the company pinned its hopes on a slow , dull , four-door car called the toyopet crown .
right	fair	JJ	right	fair	10	8	many of the jefferson students did n't think it was right that rodrigo could n't be with his friends at the school he 'd been attending for years .	many classmates did n't think that it was fair that rodrigo could not be with his friends at school .
head	face	NN	head	face	7	4	he phoned in using skype , his head floating on a laptop that was passed around the room .	an image of his face appeared on the laptop that was passed around the room .
mechanism	system	NN	mechanism	system	5	4	and yet the basic interlocking mechanism found inside grandfather clocks and car steering systems has now turned up in the remarkably powerful legs of young planthopper insects .	but the basic interlocking system found inside grandfather clocks and car steering systems has now turned up in the powerful legs of a certain young insect species .
swimmer	swimming	NN	swimmer	swimming	17	15	if one leg fires first , the planthopper will end up spinning , like a one-armed breast-stroke swimmer .	if one leg fires first , the planthopper will end up spinning , like someone swimming with one arm .
ingenious	clever	JJ	ingenious	clever	7	7	so the planthopper 's body has an ingenious solution that keeps the legs in step without a thought .	so the planthopper 's body has a clever solution that keeps the legs in step without a thought .
ingenious	smart	JJ	ingenious	smart	7	7	so the planthopper 's body has an ingenious solution that keeps the legs in step without a thought .	so the planthopper 's body has a smart solution that keeps the legs in step without a thought .
clever	smart	JJ	clever	smart	7	7	so the planthopper 's body has a clever solution that keeps the legs in step without a thought .	so the planthopper 's body has a smart solution that keeps the legs in step without a thought .
solution	fix	NN	solution	fix	8	8	so the planthopper 's body has an ingenious solution that keeps the legs in step without a thought .	so the planthopper 's body has a smart fix that keeps the legs in step without a thought .
dealer	seller	NN	dealer	seller	10	10	after mustad 's death in 1970 , the distinguished art dealer daniel wildenstein took another look at it .	after mustad 's death in 1970 , the famous art seller daniel wildenstein took another look at it .
moment	time	NN	moment	time	19	8	he said his predecessors might also have been confused because the painting was done at a '' transitional '' moment in van gogh 's style .	he said the painting was done at a time when van gogh 's style was changing .
acknowledge	recognize	VBP	acknowledge	recognize	5	5	under the program , schools acknowledge that all students are capable of bullying and being bullied .	under the program , schools recognize that all students are capable of bullying and being bullied .
recognize	know	VBP	recognize	know	5	1	under the program , schools recognize that all students are capable of bullying and being bullied .	schools know that any child may be a bully .
good	nice	JJ	good	nice	4	7	others worry that rewarding good behavior with tokens or other perks sends the wrong message with short-lived results .	others worry that giving prizes for being nice sends the wrong message .
bullying	bully	NN	bullying	bully	17	12	it 's estimated that 20 to 30 percent of school-age children are either bullied or engage in bullying , reports say .	about 20 to 30 percent of school-age children are either bullied or bully others .
forum	meeting	NN	forum	meeting	13	13	by 2011 , more than 250 school leaders from across illinois attended a forum to learn how the network could be used to tackle bullying .	by 2011 , more than 250 school leaders from across illinois attended a meeting to tackle bullying .
solution	way	NN	solution	way	4	4	there is no easy solution to the problem of bullying , said catherine bradshaw of the johns hopkins center for the prevention of youth violence .	there is no easy way to stop bullying , said catherine bradshaw .
deter	discourage	VB	deter	discourage	19	19	the park is in a gang-infested area , but not in a so-called impact zone flooded by officers to deter crime , mccarthy said .	the park is in a gang-infested area , but not in a so-called impact zone flooded by officers to discourage crime , mccarthy said .
deter	prevent	VB	deter	prevent	19	7	the park is in a gang-infested area , but not in a so-called impact zone flooded by officers to deter crime , mccarthy said .	impact zones are flooded by officers to prevent crime .
discourage	prevent	VB	discourage	prevent	19	7	the park is in a gang-infested area , but not in a so-called impact zone flooded by officers to discourage crime , mccarthy said .	impact zones are flooded by officers to prevent crime .
abdomen	belly	NN	abdomen	belly	10	8	mario campbell , who was shot three times in the abdomen , had been worried about gang conflicts in the past week , his mother diane cade said .	mario campbell was shot three times in the belly at the park .
fuel	gasoline	NN	fuel	gasoline	4	4	carbon dioxide from fossil fuel emissions had turned seawater in willapa bay along washington 's coast so lethal that slippery young pacific oysters stopped growing .	carbon dioxide from burning gasoline and oil had turned seawater along washington 's coast deadly .
fuel	oil	NN	fuel	oil	4	4	carbon dioxide from fossil fuel emissions had turned seawater in willapa bay along washington 's coast so lethal that slippery young pacific oysters stopped growing .	carbon dioxide from burning oil and gasoline made seawater along washington 's coast deadly .
psychological	mental	JJ	psychological	mental	14	7	she 's watched her body change , but the most drastic change has been psychological , she said .	but , the biggest change has been mental , she said .
possibility	chance	NN	possibility	chance	10	5	but , adolescents and their parents are counseled about the possibility of blood clots and liver damage , said johanna olson .	but , there is a chance of blood clots and liver damage , said johanna olson .
competition	contest	NN	competition	contest	4	8	visitors were anticipating a competition for child chefs .	visitors were waiting for a children 's cooking contest to start .
tourist	tourism	NN	tourist	tourism	15	12	like previous terrorist attacks in kenya , the assault is likely to severely affect the tourist trade , which is vital to the country 's economy .	like previous terror attacks in kenya , the assault will likely hurt tourism .
spate	series	NN	spate	series	21	6	air traffic controllers in china also err on the side of caution , the result of strict regulations imposed after a spate of accidents in the early 1990s .	strict regulations were imposed after a series of accidents in the early 1990s .
result	effect	NN	result	effect	14	4	air traffic controllers in china also err on the side of caution , the result of strict regulations imposed after a spate of accidents in the early 1990s .	strict rules went into effect after a series of accidents in the early 1990s .
glass-atrium	glass	NN	glass-atrium	glass	1	1	the glass-atrium vanity project , the world 's second-largest airport terminal , made beijing look rich but did nothing to alleviate the congestion in the air .	the glass atrium is the world 's second-largest airport terminal and makes beijing look rich .
glass-atrium	atrium	NN	glass-atrium	atrium	1	2	the glass-atrium vanity project , the world 's second-largest airport terminal , made beijing look rich but did nothing to alleviate the congestion in the air .	the glass atrium is the world 's second-largest airport terminal and makes beijing look rich .
invest	spend	VB	invest	spend	12	9	under a five-year plan released in 2011 , china said it would invest $ 230 billion to construct 55 airports .	in 2011 , the chinese government announced it would spend $ 230 billion to construct 55 new airports .
construct	build	VB	construct	build	17	9	under a five-year plan released in 2011 , china said it would invest $ 230 billion to construct 55 airports .	in 2011 , the chinese government announced it would build 55 new airports .
clearance	permission	NN	clearance	permission	9	7	this vague and evasive phrase implies there 's no clearance for an airplane to take off or land .	this vague phrase implies there 's no permission for an airplane to take off or land .
put	placed	VBN	put	place	2	2	passengers were put up for the night in shared rooms in a guest house run by the local water authority .	passengers were placed for the night in shared rooms in a guest house .
venture	company	NN	venture	company	8	21	he 's not far off : numbers from venture capital clearinghouse cb insights indicate less than 1 percent of venture-backed startups have a latino co-founder .	he 's not far off : less than 1 percent of venture-backed startups have a latino co-founder , according to a company that follows the startup business .
entrepreneur	businessman	NN	entrepreneur	businessman	4	4	the longtime silicon valley entrepreneur and venture capitalist has tried for more than a decade to pull more latinos into the tech industry .	the longtime silicon valley businessman and venture capitalist has tried for more than a decade to pull more latinos into tech .
venture	project	NN	venture	project	10	10	she worked 10 years ago with vicente fox on a venture that helps mexican tech companies do business in silicon valley .	she worked 10 years ago with vicente fox on a project that helps mexican tech companies do business in silicon valley .
batch	group	NN	batch	group	10	8	and , since most of the founders in the first batch hail from outside the san francisco bay area , avila has hooked them up with housing .	most of the business people in the first group of startups live outside the san francisco bay area .
economy	country	NN	economy	country	7	12	but with punitive sanctions increasingly squeezing the economy , he has signaled top-level support for the rouhani mission , including allowing the release of 11 political prisoners .	but punishments against iran over the program have hurt business in the country .
pragmatic	realistic	JJ	pragmatic	realistic	23	23	although he is a true believer in the islamic revolution and a pillar of the iranian national security apparatus , he is also pragmatic and intelligent .	although he is a true believer in the islamic revolution and a pillar of the iranian national security apparatus , he is also realistic and intelligent .
tehran	iran	NN	tehran	iran	19	9	it also would not sit well with the israelis , who are counting on the united states to prevent tehran from getting a nuclear bomb .	they are counting on the united states to prevent iran from ever getting a nuclear bomb .
significant	big	JJ	significant	big	14	14	while the two organizations mirror each other in many ways , there are some significant differences .	while the two groups mirror each other in many ways , there are some big differences .
launch	start	VB	launch	start	8	4	stemberger contends trail life which expects to formally launch on jan .	trail life expects to start activities on jan .
capture	take	VB	capture	take	7	7	stemberger argues trail life is poised to capture those unhappy with the new role of gays in society and the scouts .	stemberger thinks trail life is well-placed to take in people who are unhappy with the new role of gays in society and the scouts .
settlement	agreement	NN	settlement	agreement	15	11	last week the judge who heard banafa 's case , edward davila , approved a settlement for both women .	last week the judge who heard banafa 's case approved an agreement for both women .
establish	set	VB	establish	set	3	3	abercrombie will also establish an appeal process for employees who are denied accommodations for religious attire .	abercrombie will also set up a process for employees to appeal if the are denied an accommodation for religious clothing .
farmer	grower	NN	farmer	grower	21	16	in the age-old face-off between man and bird , falconry has presented a new way to tip the scales in the farmer 's favor .	in the age-old face-off between farmer and bird , falconry is tipping the scales in the grower 's favor .
answer	solution	NN	answer	solution	7	5	one ventura county strawberry farmer 's imperfect answer is riding his bicycle on his farm and sounding its bell .	a strawberry farmer 's imperfect solution is to ride his bicycle near the crops , sounding its bell .
midflight	mid-flight	NN	midflight	mid-flight	17	15	hung on the end of a branch , the orbs are meant to spook the burglars in midflight .	hung on the end of a branch , they are meant to spook birds in mid-flight .
formidable	huge	JJ	formidable	huge	16	15	although weather and water are still a farmer 's chief concerns , avian pests are a formidable challenge .	although weather and water are still a farmer 's chief concerns , birds are a huge challenge .
become	make	VB	become	make	7	7	birds raise the risk that food will become diseased .	birds raise the risk that fruit will make people sick .
diseased	sick	JJ	diseased	sick	8	9	birds raise the risk that food will become diseased .	birds raise the risk that fruit will make people sick .
massive	large	JJ	massive	large	6	6	islamabad in the wake of a massive earthquake in southwestern pakistan , the death toll wednesday rose sharply to nearly 300 , officials and local media said .	islamabad the death toll from a large earthquake in southwestern pakistan reached nearly 300 on wednesday .
extent	level	NN	extent	level	7	4	local television images from baluchistan showed the extent of the disaster .	local television showed the level of the disaster .
basic	simple	JJ	basic	simple	11	9	most houses in the region bordering iran are poorly constructed of basic materials .	most houses in the region are poorly constructed of simple materials .
debris	rubble	NN	debris	rubble	9	10	in one video , a dazed man pawed through debris to collect a few meager possessions from his destroyed home .	in one video , a dazed man pawed through the rubble trying to collect a few modest possessions from his destroyed home .
meager	modest	JJ	meager	modest	14	16	in one video , a dazed man pawed through debris to collect a few meager possessions from his destroyed home .	in one video , a dazed man pawed through the rubble trying to collect a few modest possessions from his destroyed home .
comprehensive	full	JJ	comprehensive	full	7	7	it was initially difficult to get a comprehensive picture of the damage , as often happens when natural disasters hit inaccessible areas .	it was initially difficult to get a full picture of the damage .
also	far	RB	also	far	14	5	the indian capital of new delhi , several hundred miles to the east , also trembled .	smaller earthquakes were felt as far away as the indian capital of new delhi .
virtually	almost	RB	virtually	almost	16	5	he said a first jolt tuesday was n't so big , but a second one destroyed virtually every building in the village , including his eight-room mud house .	but a second one destroyed almost every building in the village , including his eight-room mud house .
impede	prevent	VB	impede	prevent	12	11	however , steep terrain and the lack of paved roads continued to impede rescue operations , officials said .	but steep terrain and the lack of paved roads continued to prevent rescue missions from getting where they needed to go .
incredible	amazing	JJ	incredible	amazing	5	5	the board 's timing was incredible .	the board 's timing was amazing .
auction	sale	NN	auction	sale	15	12	dubai , united arab emirates inside the gallery , artworks by syrian artists were drawing auction bids from collectors .	dubai , united arab emirates a gallery in dubai held an art sale on monday .
conflict	war	NN	conflict	war	1	1	but conflict has always been an incubator for creativity .	but war has always led to creativity .
reveal	show	VB	reveal	show	9	2	whales are often called marine sentinels because they can reveal a lot about the waters they swim through , said sascha usenko .	whales can show a lot about waters they swim through , said sascha usenko .
life	lifetime	NN	life	lifetime	15	10	but fat tissue called blubber mostly only shows what the whale gathered in over its life , said gina ylitalo .	it usually only shows what the whale gathered over its lifetime , said gina ylitalo .
mostly	usually	RB	mostly	usually	5	1	but fat tissue called blubber mostly only shows what the whale gathered in over its life , said gina ylitalo .	it usually only shows what the whale gathered over its lifetime , said gina ylitalo .
earplug	plug	NN	earplug	plug	16	1	to test this theory , the team took a very fine-toothed band saw to a 10-inch earplug pulled out of a nearly 70-foot-long male blue whale .	the plug was pulled out of a nearly 70-foot-long male blue whale .
lifetime	life	NN	lifetime	life	11	11	the average concentrations of cortisol also doubled over the animal 's lifetime , which could be due many factors .	the average amount of cortisol also doubled over the animal 's life .
status	standing	NN	status	standing	6	6	food availability , changes in social status , contaminant exposure or environmental noise could change the stress level , the authors wrote .	food availability , changes in social standing , exposure to contaminants or environmental noise could change the stress level , the authors wrote .
contamination	pollution	NN	contamination	pollution	22	13	because the whale seemed to travel up and down the california coast , perhaps it was swimming through regions with increased mercury contamination , the authors wrote .	so it might have been swimming through regions where there was more mercury pollution , the scientists wrote .
cease	stop	VB	cease	stop	15	11	mail delivery would continue but loan programs to small businesses , farmers and homeowners would cease .	but loan programs to small businesses , farmers and homeowners would stop .
independent	separate	JJ	independent	separate	10	3	weighing just over 10 pounds , the leg has two independent engines powering movement in the ankle and knee .	it has two separate engines that power movement in the ankle and knee .
switch	change	VB	switch	change	13	12	most prosthetics in use today require the physical turn of a key to switch from one movement to another .	in most prosthetics , the wearer has to turn a key to change from one type of movement to another .
finest	nicest	JJS	finest	nicest	18	11	now , embroidered mayan textiles known as huipiles are undergoing a revival in some of the country 's finest boutiques as they become a haute couture fixture .	now , the mayan cloth can be found in guatemala 's nicest stores .
high-end	high	JJ	high-end	high	25	3	in guatemala 's design houses , that 's translated into pumps , ties and purses that stand out from the usual sober colors displayed in high-end stores .	in guatemala 's high fashion centers , they are made into shoes , ties and purses .
non-indigenous	non-native	JJ	non-indigenous	non-native	13	6	eduardo figueroa , a high-couture designer , said modernizing the mayan designs helps non-indigenous people appreciate this ethnic fashion .	making the designs more modern helps non-native people appreciate them , said fashion designer eduardo figueroa .
nostalgia	homesickness	NN	nostalgia	homesickness	22	22	and guatemalans living in the united states and other countries have particularly embraced the designs , perhaps as a cure for their nostalgia for home .	and guatemalans living in the united states and other countries have particularly embraced the designs , perhaps as a cure for their homesickness .
perhaps	possibly	RB	perhaps	possibly	16	16	and guatemalans living in the united states and other countries have particularly embraced the designs , perhaps as a cure for their nostalgia for home .	and guatemalans living in the united states and other countries have particularly embraced the designs , possibly as a cure for being homesick .
homesickness	homesick	NN	homesickness	homesick	22	22	and guatemalans living in the united states and other countries have particularly embraced the designs , perhaps as a cure for their homesickness .	and guatemalans living in the united states and other countries have particularly embraced the designs , possibly as a cure for being homesick .
outfit	dress	NN	outfit	dress	1	1	the outfit was rated as one of the contest 's best by fashion designer and project runway judge nick verreos .	the dress was rated as one of the contest 's best .
likewise	also	RB	likewise	also	0	0	likewise , he says , some guatemalans wo n't accept them .	also , some guatemalans wo n't accept them .
means	way	NN	means	way	13	10	over the years , though , the embroidery of the outfits became a means of self-expression , said alvaro pop .	over the years , embroidery on the clothing became a way for the guatemalans to express their stories and ideas , said alvaro pop .
gown	dress	NN	gown	dress	15	1	a pair of high-fashion shoes runs from $ 50 to $ 150 , and a gown can cost between $ 300 and $ 800 .	a dress can cost between $ 300 and $ 800 .
panel	group	NN	panel	group	18	19	new york - athletic trainers should be on the lookout for mental health problems among student-athletes , a panel said on wednesday .	new york - athletic trainers need to keep an eye out for mental health problems among student-athletes , a group of doctors and sports experts said on wednesday .
task	group	NN	task	group	22	20	athletic trainers should also be prepared to make an emergency referral if student-athletes are a threat to themselves or others , the task force noted .	athletic trainers should make an emergency appointment with counselors if student-athletes are a threat to themselves or others , the group noted .
call	contact	VB	call	contact	2	3	trainers should call law enforcement if the person is violent .	and they should contact law enforcement if a person is violent .
prone	likely	JJ	prone	likely	9	8	according to the task force , athletes are particularly prone to developing psychological problems when they get injured and have to take time out from their sport .	there is one time when athletes are particularly likely to develop psychological problems : when they get injured and have to take time out from their sport .
healthcare	care	NN	healthcare	care	13	12	he said one strategy for reaching out to athletes is to frame mental healthcare as a way to improve their performance in their sport .	one strategy for reaching out to athletes is to frame mental health care as a way to improve their performance in their sport .
sport	game	NN	sport	game	23	22	he said one strategy for reaching out to athletes is to frame mental healthcare as a way to improve their performance in their sport .	schwenk suggested one good way to reach out to athletes : talk about mental health care as a way to improve their game .
solid	good	JJ	solid	good	16	19	people want to know if they can afford the premiums and if the coverage will be solid .	people want to know if they can afford the monthly bill for their insurance and if they will get good care .
display	show	VB	display	show	14	14	over the weekend , several states were still struggling to get plan information to display accurately on their websites .	over the weekend , several states were still struggling to get plan information to show up accurately on their websites .
accurately	correctly	RB	accurately	correctly	15	15	over the weekend , several states were still struggling to get plan information to display accurately on their websites .	over the weekend , several states were still struggling to get information to show up correctly on their websites .
earlier	already	RB	earlier	already	0	3	earlier , the federal government announced delays for small business and spanish-language signups .	the federal government already announced delays for small business and spanish-language signups .
protracted	long	JJ	protracted	long	1	1	a protracted government shutdown could slow needed technology fixes .	a long government shutdown could slow needed technology fixes .
virtually	practically	RB	virtually	practically	2	0	1 , virtually all americans will have a legal obligation to carry health insurance or face fines .	practically all americans will have have to carry health insurance on jan .
longer	already	RB	longer	already	8	13	1 , a pre-existing medical condition will no longer be a barrier to getting health insurance .	1 , you will be able to get health insurance even if you already have a medical problem .
voting	voter	NN	voting	voter	17	19	the suit marked the second time in recent months that the democratic obama administration has challenged a voting law enacted by a republican-led state .	this is the second time in less than two months his administration has sued a republican-led state over a voter law .
voter	voting	NN	voter	voting	19	21	this is the second time in less than two months his administration has sued a republican-led state over a voter law .	this is the second time in less than two months that holder 's lawyers have sued a republican-led state over a voting law .
assert	say	VBP	assert	say	1	1	democrats assert that the laws are intended to make it harder for blacks and other voters who are likely to vote for democratic candidates to cast their ballots .	democrats say that the laws are intended to make it harder for blacks and other people who are likely to vote democratic cast their ballots .
bring	file	VB	bring	file	5	5	holder said his department could bring more voting rights cases .	holder said his department could file more lawsuits about voting laws .
rights	laws	NNS	rights	law	8	10	holder said his department could bring more voting rights cases .	holder said his department could file more lawsuits about voting laws .
buy	get	VB	buy	get	14	11	he said then that people needed a photo id to board an airplane and buy cold medicine .	he said in august that people needed a photo id to get on an airplane .
requirement	rule	NN	requirement	rule	7	8	\* and the adoption of an id requirement that is stricter than the justice department allows .	\* -- and the adoption of an id rule that is stricter than the justice department allows .
prove	show	VB	prove	show	10	4	under that section , the federal government will have to prove that discrimination was both the intent behind the north carolina law and its effect .	it will have to show that north carolina meant to treat voters unfairly based on race when it passed the law .
reach	agree	VB	reach	agree	10	10	on monday night the house and senate were unable to reach an agreement as they played political tennis over a plan to temporarily fund the government .	on monday night the house and senate were unable to agree on a plan to temporarily pay for the work of the government .
reach	find	VB	reach	find	10	7	on monday night the house and senate were unable to reach an agreement as they played political tennis over a plan to temporarily fund the government .	washington on monday night congress could n't find a way to keep paying for the work of government .
nonetheless	still	RB	nonetheless	still	13	12	some of the services immediately affected are largely invisible , but important , nonetheless .	some of the services immediately affected are largely invisible , but are still important .
halt	stop	VB	halt	stop	10	10	the state department , for example , will have to halt some processing of passport applications , potentially threatening the travel plans of citizens .	the state department , for example , will have to stop giving out some passports .
continue	go	VB	continue	go	11	9	all social security and supplemental security income payments to beneficiaries will continue without interruption .	social security money sent to retired people will still go out .
employee	worker	NN	employee	worker	9	9	he was kind of frantic , '' said the employee , who was counseling callers to simply stay tuned .	he was kind of frantic , '' said the worker , who was telling callers to simply stay tuned .
thoroughly	carefully	RB	thoroughly	carefully	5	5	it was the first to thoroughly test for the presence of pharmaceuticals and personal care products or ppcps within the great lakes .	it was the first to carefully test the great lakes for pharmaceuticals and personal care products together called ppcps for short .
affect	harm	VB	affect	harm	13	7	the concern is that the products , or mixtures of them , might affect fish and other aquatic life in ways that harm the ecosystem , klaper said .	scientists are worried that such products might harm fish , birds and other wildlife .
pop	soda	NN	pop	soda	14	14	caffeine , found from some natural sources but also from coffee , tea , pop and energy drinks .	caffeine , found from some natural sources but also from coffee , tea , soda and energy drinks .
significant	serious	JJ	significant	serious	10	10	the threat to the health of the great lakes is significant , the report states .	the threat to the health of the great lakes is serious , the report states .
low-level	low	JJ	low-level	low	7	8	new treatment technologies can be effective on low-level ppcps , but only the newest plants have them , johnson said .	there are new treatment technologies that can remove low levels of ppcps .
excursion	trip	NN	excursion	trip	9	5	in between the highlight of their trip was an excursion to yosemite .	in between was a side trip to yosemite .
trip	visit	NN	trip	visit	6	10	in between the highlight of their trip was an excursion to yosemite .	the highlight of their honeymoon was supposed to be a visit to yosemite national park .
fight	battle	NN	fight	battle	1	3	the fight has shut down parts of the federal government for the first time in 17 years , including all 401 national park service sites .	a bitter political battle in washington shut down parts of the federal government for the first time in 17 years , including all 401 national park service sites .
far	many	JJ	far	many	4	4	early october is a far cry from the crush of visitors during the height of summer , but still a bustling time in yosemite .	there are n't as many visitors in early october as in the height of the summer , but it is still normally a busy time at yosemite .
big-name	big	JJ	big-name	big	13	13	they may have different teams they favor , but they 're all after big-name players , the ones whose cards could command hundreds of dollars .	they may have different teams they favor , but they 're all after big players , the ones whose cards could sell for hundreds of dollars .
limited-run	limited	JJ	limited-run	limited	1	9	the limited-run card is autographed and it also has a swatch of his jersey attached to it .	the card is autographed and is part of a limited run .
shop	business	NN	shop	business	8	8	twenty years ago , the salesman at the shop where bisson bought his cards wanted to branch out on his own .	twenty years ago , he got into the business with a salesman at a card shop .
passion	love	NN	passion	love	10	4	zach has been coming since december , driven by a passion for sports that he picked up from his father , a new england patriots fan .	he picked up a love for sports from his father .
exceptionally	unusually	RB	exceptionally	unusually	8	2	one apple was juicy but mushy , another exceptionally firm and crisp .	another was unusually firm and crisp .
next	next-generation	JJ	next	next-generation	13	14	as picking season for snapdragon dawns , brown is already thinking of the next generation apple .	as picking season for the snapdragon begins , brown is already thinking of the next-generation apple .
main	big	JJ	main	big	10	8	just as in the united states , one of the main concerns is that girls are outperforming boys in school .	just as in the united states , a big concern is that girls are outperforming boys in school .
pedagogy	teaching	NN	pedagogy	teaching	18	20	experts blame the country 's education system , which stresses rote memorization over a more creative , free-thinking pedagogy .	experts blame the country 's education system , which stresses rote memorization over a more creative , free-thinking way of teaching .
education	learning	NN	education	learning	5	11	experts blame the country 's education system , which stresses rote memorization over a more creative , free-thinking pedagogy .	it emphasizes memorization over a more creative , free-thinking way of learning .
teaching	learning	NN	teaching	learning	20	11	experts blame the country 's education system , which stresses rote memorization over a more creative , free-thinking way of teaching .	it emphasizes memorization over a more creative , free-thinking way of learning .
early	young	JJ	early	young	8	5	parents and teachers force children here from an early age to memorize subjects geared toward helping them pass a number of national exams for high school and college .	parents and teachers force even young children to memorize subjects geared toward helping them pass a number of national exams for high school and college .
notion	idea	NN	notion	idea	1	1	this notion of the sensitive male disappeared after the last dynasty fell in the early part of the 20th century , however .	this idea disappeared in the early part of the 20th century , however .
idea	view	NN	idea	view	13	9	but now , louis said , things are moving back toward a broader idea of what makes a man a man .	but now things are moving back to the older view .
shift	change	NN	shift	change	5	5	then there 's the jarring shift from living in a depopulated city neighborhood to living in something that resembles the cornfields of iowa .	then there 's the hard change of living in a depopulated city neighborhood to living in something that resembles the cornfields of iowa .
ground	soil	NN	ground	soil	12	14	the company is trying to find ways to grow good crops in ground that might contain lead , asphalt or old filled-in basements .	the company is also trying to find ways to grow good crops in bad soil .
asphalt	pavement	NN	asphalt	pavement	18	7	the company is trying to find ways to grow good crops in ground that might contain lead , asphalt or old filled-in basements .	the ground might also contain lead , pavement or old filled-in basements .
land	ground	NN	land	ground	2	2	it is land that also might have inconsistent irrigation and different types of weeds than found in a rural field where crops are grown .	it is ground with inconsistent irrigation and different types of weeds than are found in a country field where plants usually grow .
area	neighborhood	NN	area	neighborhood	6	15	while foxworth said he talked with area residents ahead of time , several said they only learned of the project when insecticide sprayers came through early this summer .	family roots attorney maurice foxworth says that he spoke with people who lived in the neighborhood before planting began .
security	safety	NN	security	safety	8	8	and several said there was a sense of security in being able to see each others ' houses across the mostly-empty blocks .	several said there was once a sense of safety in being able to see each others ' houses across the mostly-empty blocks .
pay	make	VB	pay	make	16	3	washington congress gets to approve spending , then later slam the door on new borrowing to pay the bills .	congress gets to make laws .
statutory	legal	JJ	statutory	legal	3	2	but the actual statutory limit on just how much debt the federal government can incur began almost 100 years ago .	but the legal limit on just how much debt the federal government can borrow began almost 100 years ago .
authority	government	NN	authority	government	13	5	before then , congress had from time to time given the treasury department authority to issue bonds to raise money for special projects .	people buy bonds because the government promises to pay them back .
entrails	guts	NNS	entrails	gut	16	12	by the time the remains were located , the tail and thighs were missing , the entrails spilled in the dirt .	the remains were located , the tail and legs missing , the guts spilled out in the dirt .
stomach	belly	NN	stomach	belly	13	13	there was a gash in the neck ; claw marks raked down the stomach .	there was a gash in the neck ; claw marks raked down the belly .
frequently	often	RB	frequently	often	6	6	or , as is happening more frequently in china , they discover that livestock is missing or mauled .	or , as is happening more often in china , they discover that livestock are missing or mauled .
award	prize	NN	award	prize	2	6	the nobel award can only be split by three people .	only three people can split the prize at most , according to the rules .
detect	find	VB	detect	find	11	11	if this is the case then it should be possible to detect a type of particle , dubbed the higgs boson , where the fields clump together .	if this is true , then it should be possible to find a type of particle that makes the others slow down and stick together .
film	footage	NN	film	footage	11	20	at the show , visitors can view more than 100 animated film clips .	at the show , visitors can view more than 100 animated clips , adding up to nearly 12 hours of footage .
attract	bring	VB	attract	bring	10	8	it 's all there in a six-section configuration designed to attract art lovers and pop-culture fanboys alike .	it 's split into six sections meant to bring in art lovers and pop-culture fans alike .
show	exhibit	NN	show	exhibit	10	10	plush couches and other seating areas are placed throughout the show , along with headphones and built-in audio sources .	plush couches and other seating areas are placed around the exhibit with headphones and built-in audio sources .
exhibit	show	NN	exhibit	show	10	8	plush couches and other seating areas are placed around the exhibit with headphones and built-in audio sources .	plush couches and chairs are placed around the show with headphones .
pace	speed	NN	pace	speed	19	16	it 's designed to allow visitors to take a load off and absorb the animated content at their own pace .	it is designed to allow visitors to relax and take in the art at their own speed .
lecture	talk	NN	lecture	talk	1	1	one lecture will be delivered by leslie iwerks , an academy award-nominated filmmaker whose grandfather , ub iwerks , was a pioneering disney animator .	one talk will be delivered by leslie iwerks .
exhibition	show	NN	exhibition	show	1	1	the exhibition presents more than a lengthy succession of moving images .	the show presents more than just a collection of moving images .
show	exhibition	NN	show	exhibition	1	1	the show presents more than just a collection of moving images .	the exhibition presents more than a lengthy string of moving pictures .
jagged-edge	jagged-edged	JJ	jagged-edge	jagged-edged	11	10	in the exhibition 's projection mapping room , light splashes across jagged-edge formations that at one point give the appearance that spiders are crawling all around .	in one example from the show , light splashes across jagged-edged shapes .
jagged-edged	jagged-edge	JJ	jagged-edged	jagged-edge	10	10	in one example from the show , light splashes across jagged-edged shapes .	in one part of the room , light falls across jagged-edge shapes .
consecutive	straight	JJ	consecutive	straight	18	9	the lack of inspections is coming under scrutiny after three mine workers died in separate accidents on three consecutive days during the past week .	three mine workers died in separate accidents on three straight days during the past week .
straight	consecutive	JJ	straight	consecutive	9	9	three mine workers died in separate accidents on three straight days during the past week .	three mine workers died in separate accidents on three consecutive days during the past week .
also	likewise	RB	also	likewise	5	5	the food and drug administration also has stopped routine inspections of food facilities in the united states and abroad , and border controls could be delayed .	the food and drug administration likewise has stopped routine inspections of food facilities in the united states and abroad .
routine	normal	JJ	routine	normal	8	7	the food and drug administration also has stopped routine inspections of food facilities in the united states and abroad , and border controls could be delayed .	the food and drug administration has stopped normal inspections of food plants .
staffing	staff	NN	staffing	staff	5	6	cdc also is slashing its staffing on quarantine stations at 20 airports and entry points .	the cdc also is slashing its staff at airports .
personnel	people	NNS	personnel	people	3	0	active duty military personnel are on duty .	people on active military duty are working .
accuracy	correctness	NN	accuracy	correctness	3	3	to test the accuracy of these journals , bohannon created a false and fatally flawed study on a wonder cure for cancer .	to test the correctness of these journals , bohannon created a flawed study on a cure for cancer .
false	fake	JJ	false	fake	13	8	hoping to test the academic rigor of these journals , bohannon concocted a false and fatally flawed study on a wonder cure for cancer .	to test the journals , bohannon created a fake study about a cure for cancer .
author	writer	NN	author	writer	3	1	also , the author described using excessive amounts of alcohol in experimental solutions amounts that would have poisoned the cells being studied .	the writer also described using lots of alcohol in the experiment .
paper	journal	NN	paper	journal	6	1	among the journals that accepted the paper was the american journal of polymer science , which is owned by scientific &amp; amp ; academic publishing .	one journal that accepted it was the american journal of polymer science .
journal	paper	NN	journal	paper	1	8	one journal that accepted it was the american journal of polymer science .	the american journal of polymer science accepted the paper .
publication	journal	NN	publication	journal	8	8	there are no phone numbers listed for the publication or its officers .	there are no phone numbers listed for the journal or its officers .
journal	publication	NN	journal	publication	8	9	there are no phone numbers listed for the journal or its officers .	there are also no phone numbers listed for the publication .
controversy	disagreement	NN	controversy	disagreement	11	11	so-called massive open online courses , or moocs , are creating controversy at universities in the united states .	so-called massive open online courses , or moocs , are creating disagreement at universities in the united states .
populous	populated	JJ	populous	populated	5	6	they come not only from populous countries like brazil and mexico , but also places such as haiti , belize and uruguay , he added .	they come not only from heavily populated countries like brazil and mexico , but also from places such as haiti , belize and uruguay .
renowned	famous	JJ	renowned	famous	26	26	the university offers no credit for the online courses , but students covet the prestige of a certificate for a completed course from mit or other renowned institution .	the university offers no credit for the online courses , but students want the prestige of a certificate for a completed course from mit or other famous institutions .
problem	issue	NN	problem	issue	16	15	they have long complained that a lack of information has hurt their attempts to raise the problem with governments .	they have long complained that not having information has made it hard to raise the issue with governments .
mainly	mostly	RB	mainly	mostly	14	3	he can only afford to buy meat twice a month ; the family relies mainly on potatoes and curried vegetables .	his family eats mostly potatoes and curried vegetables .
prosperity	wealth	NN	prosperity	wealth	0	0	prosperity in itself does not guarantee protection for the old .	wealth in itself does not guarantee protection for the old .
pre-dawn	predawn	JJ	pre-dawn	predawn	21	6	munro told canadian broadcaster cbc she was '' surprised and delighted '' at the news , which she heard in a pre-dawn phone call from her daughter .	she heard she won in a predawn phone call from her daughter .
disastrous	terrible	JJ	disastrous	terrible	12	24	the internal revenue service moved to enforce the law , sometimes with disastrous public relations consequences .	many amish at the time refused to pay the new taxes and the internal revenue service moved to enforce the law , sometimes with terrible public relations consequences .
susceptible	prone	JJ	susceptible	prone	4	4	amish children are more susceptible to recessive genetic disorders , the result of a small and largely insular population .	amish children are more prone to recessive genetic disorders , however , the result of belonging to a small population with high rates of intermarriage .
specific	particular	JJ	specific	particular	7	6	most mud sales and benefit auctions benefit specific institutions .	most mud sales and auctions benefit particular institutions .
clinic	hospital	NN	clinic	hospital	14	21	but a series of five held across the state each year help fund the clinic for special children , a world-class pediatric genetics clinic .	but a series of five held across the state each year help fund the clinic for special children , a world-class hospital for children with genetic diseases .
organization	opcw	NN	organization	opcw	5	5	the hague , netherlands an organization trying to rid the world of chemical weapons won the nobel peace prize on friday .	the hague , netherlands the opcw has one job : to get rid of the world 's chemical weapons .
prize	award	NN	prize	award	21	4	the hague , netherlands a global watchdog group trying to destroy syria 's stockpiles of chemical weapons won the nobel peace prize on friday for its efforts .	the group won the award for its attempts to destroy syria 's stockpiles of the poisonous weapons .
class	kind	NN	class	kind	21	7	the opcw was formed in 1997 to enforce the chemical weapons convention , the first international treaty to outlaw an entire class of weapons .	it was the first time an entire kind of weapon was outlawed .
fighting	war	NN	fighting	war	1	3	the fighting has killed more than 100,000 people , devastated many cities and towns and forced millions of syrians to flee their homes and country .	the syrian civil war is now in its third year .
avert	prevent	VB	avert	prevent	1	1	to avert that , he admitted to his chemical weapons stockpile and his government quickly signed on to the chemical weapons convention .	to prevent them , he admitted his chemical weapons stockpile and his government quickly signed up to the chemical weapons convention .
two-stage	two-part	JJ	two-stage	two-part	18	16	one female activist said the publication of the video clips and photographs was the first part of a two-stage campaign designed to change attitudes .	another female activist said uploading the video clips and photographs was the first step of a two-part effort .
international	foreign	JJ	international	foreign	7	7	in the second stage , women with international driving licenses will be asked to get behind the wheel on oct .	for the second part , women with foreign driver 's licenses will go driving .
get	go	VB	get	go	14	12	in the second stage , women with international driving licenses will be asked to get behind the wheel on oct .	for the second part , women with foreign driver 's licenses will go driving .
recommendation	proposal	NN	recommendation	proposal	12	13	the council 's transport committee must now decide whether to accept her recommendation and put it to the transport ministry .	the shoura council must now decide whether to accept its female member 's proposal .
recommendation	suggestion	NN	recommendation	suggestion	12	13	the council 's transport committee must now decide whether to accept her recommendation and put it to the transport ministry .	the shoura council must now decide whether to accept its female member 's suggestion that women be allowed to drive .
proposal	suggestion	NN	proposal	suggestion	13	13	the shoura council must now decide whether to accept its female member 's proposal .	the shoura council must now decide whether to accept its female member 's suggestion that women be allowed to drive .
proposal	idea	NN	proposal	idea	13	11	the shoura council must now decide whether to accept its female member 's proposal .	the shoura council must now decide if it agrees with the idea that women should be allowed to drive .
suggestion	idea	NN	suggestion	idea	13	11	the shoura council must now decide whether to accept its female member 's suggestion that women be allowed to drive .	the shoura council must now decide if it agrees with the idea that women should be allowed to drive .
coincidence	chance	NN	coincidence	chance	6	8	she sees a happy and meaningful coincidence and 10 percent of proceeds will go to mazon , a jewish hunger relief organization .	she sees it as something that happened by chance .
occasion	event	NN	occasion	event	8	8	but , it 's a happy and meaningful occasion .	but , it is a happy and meaningful event .
conference	meeting	NN	conference	meeting	6	6	researchers presented the evidence at a conference in tel aviv .	scientists showed the evidence at a meeting in tel aviv .
custom	habit	NN	custom	habit	9	10	only after years and years does this become a custom , she explained .	only after years and years does this turn into a habit , she said .
individual	single	JJ	individual	single	0	0	individual voices become engulfed in a sea of worshippers all dressed in seamless white terrycloth robes and shoes .	single voices become drowned in a sea of worshippers .
mandatory	required	JJ	mandatory	required	3	3	the simple , mandatory outfit is meant to foster unity , equality and humility .	the simple , required outfit is meant to foster unity , equality and humility .
amount	number	NN	amount	number	4	4	saudi authorities reduced the amount of pilgrims who can come by 20 percent because of fears that there could be an outbreak among the worhippers .	saudi authorities cut the number of people who could come for the hajj by 20 percent .
expansion	growth	NN	expansion	growth	8	8	the first phase of the mosque 's new expansion project is estimated to accommodate 450,000 worshipers this hajj .	the first phase of the mosque 's new growth project is estimated to accommodate 450,000 worshipers this hajj .
stick	keep	VB	stick	keep	6	14	but she said she intends to stick it out because the class is teaching her to manage her time , take good notes and develop perseverance .	the class is teaching her to manage her time , take good notes and keep trying , she said .
calculus	math	NN	calculus	math	11	5	but he found that those who had not acquired the necessary calculus skills could not handle the work ; all 20 students failed the exam .	but not everybody knew enough math to handle the work ; all 20 students failed the exam .
healthy	good	JJ	healthy	good	19	10	new york they speak different languages , live in countries rich and poor , face horrible job markets and healthy ones .	they live in rich countries and poor ones , with good job markets and bad .
horrible	bad	JJ	horrible	bad	15	14	new york they speak different languages , live in countries rich and poor , face horrible job markets and healthy ones .	they live in rich countries and poor ones , with good job markets and bad .
desire	wish	NN	desire	wish	20	20	families are holding tight to their cash , driven more by a fear of losing what they have than a desire to increase it .	families are holding tight to their cash , driven more by a fear of losing what they have than a wish to increase it .
wish	desire	NN	wish	desire	20	22	families are holding tight to their cash , driven more by a fear of losing what they have than a wish to increase it .	families are keeping a tight grip on their cash , driven more by a fear of losing what they have than a desire to get more .
cautiously	carefully	RB	cautiously	carefully	17	14	an associated press study of households in the 10 biggest economies shows that families continue to spend cautiously .	an associated press study shows that families in the 10 biggest economies are spending carefully .
wages	salaries	NNS	wages	salary	6	5	weak growth around the world means wages in the united states , which are n't keeping up with inflation , will continue to rise slowly .	weak economic growth means that salaries in the united states , already not keeping up with the cost of living , will continue to rise slowly .
slow	slow-growing	JJ	slow	slow-growing	0	1	slow economic growth means salaries in the united states will rise slowly .	a slow-growing economy means that salaries in the united states will not rise quickly .
downturn	crisis	NN	downturn	crisis	21	16	the associated press analyzed data showing what people did with their money five years before december 2007 , when the economic downturn began , and five years afterward .	the associated press analyzed information about what people did with their money five years before the crisis began and five years after .
household	home	NN	household	home	3	10	shunning debt : household debt surged at an unprecedented rate in the five years before the financial crisis .	avoiding debt : the amount of money people owed on home loans and credit card purchases increased enormously in the five years before the crisis .
financial	economic	JJ	financial	economic	16	18	shunning debt : household debt surged at an unprecedented rate in the five years before the financial crisis .	avoiding debt : the amount of money people owed increased a lot in the five years before the economic crisis .
term	run	NN	term	run	14	19	spending slump : cutting debt and saving more may be good in the long term .	spending slump : being careful with money by cutting debt and saving more may be good in the long run .
bill	legislation	NN	bill	legislation	20	1	we just did n't win , '' conceded house speaker john boehner as lawmakers lined up to vote on a bill that fell far short of republican wishes .	the legislation includes nothing for republicans demanding to get rid of or scale back obama 's signature health care overhaul .
virtually	essentially	RB	virtually	essentially	17	4	the gradual withering of republicans ' obamacare-related demands defined the arc of the struggle that has occupied virtually all of congress ' time for the past three weeks .	the struggle has occupied essentially all of congress ' time for the past three weeks .
sporadically	occasionally	RB	sporadically	occasionally	21	16	still , national parks were closed , government research scientists were sent home and food and drug administration inspectors worked only sporadically .	also , government research scientists were sent home and food and drug administration inspectors only worked occasionally .
still	also	RB	still	also	0	0	still , national parks were closed , government research scientists were sent home and food and drug administration inspectors worked only sporadically .	also , government research scientists were sent home and food and drug administration inspectors only worked occasionally .
cash	money	NN	cash	money	5	5	better slip the surgeon some cash .	better slip the surgeon some money .
surgeon	doctor	NN	surgeon	doctor	3	4	better slip the surgeon some cash .	better slip the main doctor some money .
pervasive	widespread	JJ	pervasive	widespread	11	11	luo is campaigning against what he sees as chinese society 's pervasive culture of corruption .	luo is campaigning against what he sees as chinese society 's widespread culture of corruption .
presidency	president	NN	presidency	president	22	17	the new standards on gift-giving are part of an overall austerity campaign launched by xi jinping since he stepped up to the presidency in march .	the new standards on gift-giving are part of an overall austerity campaign launched by china 's new president , xi jinping .
option	choice	NN	option	choice	5	5	gift certificates are another popular option since they can be readily traded for cash .	gift certificates are another popular choice since they can be readily traded for cash .
readily	easily	RB	readily	easily	10	9	gift certificates are another popular option since they can be readily traded for cash .	gift certificates are also popular , because they can easily be traded for cash .
healthcare	health	NN	healthcare	health	22	21	the gift-giving tradition is an offshoot of the intensity of competition in china , where a large population fights for education , healthcare and jobs .	the gift-giving tradition is an offshoot of the intense competition in china , where a large population fights for education , health care and jobs .
large	enormous	JJ	large	enormous	16	4	the gift-giving tradition is an offshoot of the intensity of competition in china , where a large population fights for education , healthcare and jobs .	china 's population is enormous , which means competition for education , health care and jobs can be intense .
intense	strong	JJ	intense	strong	8	21	the gift-giving tradition is an offshoot of the intense competition in china , where a large population fights for education , health care and jobs .	china 's population is enormous , which means people have to fight for education , health care and jobs can be strong .
strong	tough	JJ	strong	tough	21	12	china 's population is enormous , which means people have to fight for education , health care and jobs can be strong .	battles for education , health care , jobs and promotions can be tough .
much	big	JJ	much	big	14	13	chaotic moon co-founder william '' whurley '' hurley said wearable technology will have as much of an impact as the smartphone revolution did a few years ago .	chaotic moon co-founder william '' whurley '' hurley said wearable technology will be big business .
forecast	expect	VBP	forecast	expect	1	1	analysts forecast swift growth .	analysts expect fast growth .
swift	fast	JJ	swift	fast	2	2	analysts forecast swift growth .	analysts expect fast growth .
akin	similar	JJ	akin	similar	13	4	up to 800,000 children work on small family farms with working conditions '' akin to the worst forms of child labor , '' according to the report .	their working conditions are similar to '' the worst forms of child labor , '' according to the report .
magnate	tycoon	NN	magnate	tycoon	12	12	the walk free foundation was founded last year by an australian mining magnate , andrew forrest , to campaign against slavery and fund programs to eradicate the practice .	the walk free foundation was founded last year by an australian mining tycoon , andrew forrest .
tycoon	businessman	NN	tycoon	businessman	12	12	the walk free foundation was founded last year by an australian mining tycoon , andrew forrest .	the walk free foundation was founded last year by a wealthy australian businessman , andrew forrest .
care	healthcare	NN	care	healthcare	16	7	after all , they 'd seen it before : republicans insisted on scaling back the affordable care act and the shutdown followed .	the republicans insisted on cutting back the healthcare law .
substantial	big	JJ	substantial	big	11	11	and europe , troubled as it may be , remains a substantial economic force .	and europe , troubled as it may be , remains a big force in business .
fresh	new	JJ	fresh	new	13	13	the language of the piece is harsh , but the thoughts are hardly fresh .	the language of the piece is harsh , but the thoughts are not new .
piece	part	NN	piece	part	7	7	and when it comes to this particular piece of neural real estate , it 's pretty clear that size matters .	and when it comes to this particular part of the brain , it 's pretty clear that size makes a difference .
basis	reason	NN	basis	reason	10	20	without a full picture of einstein 's brain , the basis of the theoretical physicist 's genius has eluded scientists .	without a full picture of einstein 's brain , neuroscientists researchers who study the brain could n't look for the reason for his genius .
full	complete	JJ	full	complete	2	7	without a full picture of einstein 's brain , the basis of the theoretical physicist 's genius has eluded scientists .	this meant scientists did n't have a complete picture of einstein 's brain .
volume	size	NN	volume	size	9	9	the brain 's extra folds showed evidence of unusual volume in a number of regions likely to have been key to einstein 's spatial and mathematical creativity .	the brain 's extra folds showed evidence of unusual size in a number of regions .
analysis	study	NN	analysis	study	2	2	their latest analysis is based on several of these same photographs , which showed the right hemisphere separated from the left .	the latest study is based on several of these same photographs , which showed the right hemisphere separated from the left .
much	little	RB	much	little	4	3	einstein 's brain was much more developed than those of the men around his age .	it was a little more developed than those of the young men .
word-association	word	NN	word-association	word	12	12	tech consultant rudo boothe and his daughter are heavy into shapes and word-association these days .	internet developer rudo boothe and his daughter are very into shapes and word association games these days .
word-association	association	NN	word-association	association	12	13	tech consultant rudo boothe and his daughter are heavy into shapes and word-association these days .	internet developer rudo boothe and his daughter are very into shapes and word association games these days .
child	daughter	NN	child	daughter	7	9	instead , he is investing in his child 's future ability to make money at least if you believe researchers at the university of edinburgh in scotland .	instead , he is laying the groundwork for his daughter 's future ability to make money .
daughter	child	NN	daughter	child	9	9	instead , he is laying the groundwork for his daughter 's future ability to make money .	instead , he is setting the stage for his child to earn more money later .
high	good	JJ	high	good	13	10	for starters , only 40 percent to 55 percent of american children attend high quality pre-kindergarten programs , said libby doggett .	for starters , only about half of american children attend good pre-kindergarten programs , said libby doggett .
threat	danger	NN	threat	danger	18	5	to his surprise , the cold warriors were eager to work together against an unlikely but dangerous extraterrestrial threat : asteroids on a collision course with earth .	they spoke of a possible danger : asteroids that might someday be headed straight for earth .
wreak	cause	VB	wreak	cause	12	13	some experts worry that radioactive debris from blasting an asteroid could itself wreak havoc on earth .	some experts also worry that radioactive debris from blasting an asteroid could itself cause enormous damage on earth .
havoc	damage	NN	havoc	damage	13	15	some experts worry that radioactive debris from blasting an asteroid could itself wreak havoc on earth .	some experts also worry that radioactive debris from blasting an asteroid could itself cause enormous damage on earth .
impact	hit	NN	impact	hit	8	10	the ram would separate from the bomb before impact , gouging a crater in the asteroid so the bomb could then blast it to bits .	the ram would separate from the bomb before the bomb hit , he said .
bomb	blast	NN	bomb	blast	6	10	the ram would separate from the bomb before impact , gouging a crater in the asteroid so the bomb could then blast it to bits .	then , the bomb would smash into the crater and blast the asteroid to bits .
require	need	VB	require	need	11	9	but shattering a large asteroid close to hitting earth probably would require a weapon with a yield of about a megaton , or 1 million tons of tnt .	but to shatter a large asteroid you probably would need a weapon with a blast equal to 1 million tons of tnt .
sticker	tag	NN	sticker	tag	8	5	gm is adding almost $ 2,100 to the sticker price of the base 2014 chevrolet silverado .	gm is boosting the price tag of the basic version of its 2014 chevrolet silverado pickup truck by $ 2,199 .
price	cost	NN	price	cost	9	5	gm is adding almost $ 2,100 to the sticker price of the base 2014 chevrolet silverado .	but gm is increasing the cost of its 2014 chevrolet silverado truck by more than 8 percent .
odd	strange	JJ	odd	strange	5	7	raising prices sounds like an odd way to boost sales .	detroit raising prices may sound like a strange way to boost truck sales .
remainder	rest	NN	remainder	rest	9	9	the toyota tundra and nissan titan make up the remainder .	the toyota tundra and nissan titan trucks have the rest .
online	internet	NN	online	internet	10	6	toprak says most buyers now research their cars and trucks online before buying .	most buyers do research on the internet .
say	talk	VB	say	talk	6	6	gm spokesman jim cain would not say whether the company would increase discounts .	gm spokesman jim cain would not talk about future deals .
money	cash	NN	money	cash	9	8	they can allow cash-strapped customers to use rebates , money given back as down payments .	they allow customers without a lot of available cash to use rebates as down payments .
pickup	truck	NN	pickup	truck	10	8	last month , gm spent nearly 20 percent less on pickup discounts than a year earlier .	last month , gm spent less money on truck discounts than the year before .
rise	raise	VB	rise	raise	12	2	under the increases , the base sticker price on the silverado will rise from $ 24,585 to $ 26,670 , including shipping , according to gm 's website .	gm will raise the price on the silverado from $ 24,585 to $ 26,670 .
suggest	show	VBP	suggest	show	1	2	tests suggest the creature , also known as the yeti , is the descendant of an ancient polar bear .	the results show it may be related to an ancient polar bear .
put	asked	VBD	put	ask	1	1	sykes put out a call last year for museums , scientists and yeti aficionados to share hair samples thought to be from the creature .	sykes asked museums , scientists and yeti aficionados to share hair samples thought to be from the creature .
anyway	anyhow	RB	anyway	anyhow	11	11	oreos may be as addictive as cocaine to lab rats , anyway .	it seems oreos are as habit-forming as cocaine for rats , anyhow .
consider	look	VB	consider	look	4	4	it was designed to consider the addictiveness of foods with high fat and sugar content .	it was designed to look at how addictive foods with high fat and sugar content are .
high-fat	fat	JJ	high-fat	fat	8	9	the study shows that the brain reacts to high-fat , high-sugar foods in the same way it reacts to drugs , schroeder said .	the study shows that foods with a lot of fat and sugar do the same thing to the brain that drugs do , schroeder said .
chamber	room	NN	chamber	room	8	7	the rats spent far more time in the chamber where the oreos had been than in the chamber where the rice cakes had been .	they spent far more time in the room where the oreos had been , than where the rice cakes had been .
saline	salt	NN	saline	salt	24	22	in a second experiment , rats were given a shot of cocaine or morphine in one chamber , while they received a shot of saline in the other .	in a second experiment , rats were given a shot of cocaine or morphine in one chamber , and a shot of salt water in the other .
colleague	co-worker	NN	colleague	co-worker	15	15	the museum wants to see jan develop into a senior chinese-painting conservator , like her colleague gu xiang-mei .	the museum wants to see her become a high ranking chinese-painting conservator , like her co-worker gu xiangmei .
senior	high	JJ	senior	high	9	8	the museum wants to see jan develop into a senior chinese-painting conservator , like her colleague gu xiang-mei .	the museum wants to see her become a high ranking chinese-painting conservator , like her co-worker gu xiangmei .
senior	high-ranking	JJ	senior	high-ranking	9	7	the museum wants to see jan develop into a senior chinese-painting conservator , like her colleague gu xiang-mei .	the museum wants jan to become a high-ranking chinese-painting conservator , like her co-worker gu xiangmei .
high	high-ranking	JJ	high	high-ranking	8	7	the museum wants to see her become a high ranking chinese-painting conservator , like her co-worker gu xiangmei .	the museum wants jan to become a high-ranking chinese-painting conservator , like her co-worker gu xiangmei .
ranking	high-ranking	JJ	ranking	high-ranking	9	7	the museum wants to see her become a high ranking chinese-painting conservator , like her co-worker gu xiangmei .	the museum wants jan to become a high-ranking chinese-painting conservator , like her co-worker gu xiangmei .
repair	fix	VBP	repair	fix	13	13	gu is one of only four senior conservators in the united states who repair old paintings .	gu is one of only four high-ranking people in the united states who fix old asian paintings .
provide	pay	VB	provide	pay	18	11	if that happens , then the museum 's department of conservation and scientific research will be able to provide a salary to junior conservators like jan .	if that happens , then the museum will be able to pay young conservators like jan .
junior	young	JJ	junior	young	22	12	if that happens , then the museum 's department of conservation and scientific research will be able to provide a salary to junior conservators like jan .	if that happens , then the museum will be able to pay young conservators like jan .
gallery	museum	NN	gallery	museum	20	20	in 1904 , charles freer gave his personal collection of american and asian art to the smithsonian institution ; the gallery opened in 1923 .	in 1904 , charles freer gave more than 7,000 pieces from his american and asian art collection to the smithsonian museum .
christian	christianity	NN	christian	christianity	11	6	asegedew gefe , one of the plaintiffs , is an orthodox christian who has been working at gate 's warehouse at seattle-tacoma international airport since 2010 .	he belongs to a form of christianity found in ethiopia and egypt .
someone	person	NN	someone	person	12	13	it is illegal under state law to fire or refuse to hire someone because of his creed , defined as a system of religious beliefs .	it is banned under state law from firing or refusing to hire a person because of his or her religious beliefs .
fire	firing	NN	fire	firing	7	7	it is illegal under state law to fire or refuse to hire someone because of his creed , defined as a system of religious beliefs .	it is banned under state law from firing or refusing to hire a person because of his or her religious beliefs .
workplace	work	NN	workplace	work	21	17	but , the law is less clear some say silent , even on whether employers must accommodate religious practices in the workplace .	but the law is less clear about whether businesses must allow people to practice their religion at work .
poll	survey	NN	poll	survey	1	1	a poll this year by the tanenbaum center for interreligious understanding in new york looked conflicts that are based on religion .	a survey this year by a group in new york focused on the most common problems involving religion at work .
employment-discrimination	discrimination	NN	employment-discrimination	discrimination	10	11	still , most attorneys in this state say they file employment-discrimination cases in federal , rather than state , court .	still , most lawyers in the state say they file employee discrimination cases in federal , rather than state , court .
instead	rather	RB	instead	rather	7	7	rekhi said he filed in federal , instead of state , court because he recognized a lack of clarity in state law .	rekhi filed the case in national court rather than state court .
rather	enough	RB	rather	enough	6	6	rekhi said he filed in federal rather than state court , because he recognized a lack of clarity in state law .	the state law was n't clear enough , he said .
contemporary	modern	JJ	contemporary	modern	18	16	the cricket club is the vatican 's latest attempt to use sports to engage in dialogue with the contemporary world .	the cricket club is the vatican 's latest attempt to use sports to connect with the modern world .
boost	encourage	VB	boost	encourage	6	9	he said the aim is to boost interfaith dialogue , given cricket 's immense popularity in largely non-catholic india , pakistan and bangladesh .	mccarthy said the aim of the club is to encourage communication between the world 's different religions .
family	home	NN	family	home	22	12	federal wildlife biologists are also concerned about the loss of potential habitat for the pacific fisher , a member of the weasel family .	federal wildlife scientists are also concerned about the loss of the possible home for the pacific fisher .
small-town	small	JJ	small-town	small	10	11	pokey heny stands ready to indulge in another night of small-town sociability .	pokey heny stands ready for another evening of entertainment in the small town of powell .
preserve	save	VB	preserve	save	9	6	and she smiles , knowing she 's helping to preserve a vital ritual in this a ranching town of 6,000 residents near the montana border .	she knows she 's helping to save something important in this town .
venture	business	NN	venture	business	1	2	the venture first opened in 1949 as wyoming 's first drive-in .	heny 's business first opened in 1949 as wyoming 's first drive-in .
gamble	bet	NN	gamble	bet	5	5	but heny sticks by her gamble .	but heny sticks by her bet .
childhood	child	NN	childhood	child	22	19	despite updating to digital , she tries to keep everything else immersed in yesterday , maintaining the nostalgic atmosphere of her own childhood .	though she updated to digital , she tries to keep everything else as it was when she was a child .
mom	mother	NN	mom	mother	6	12	it was n't until sarah 's mom saw the messages that the girl told her everything .	sarah did n't tell her mom about any of it until her mother saw the messages , but then she told her everything .
felony	crime	NN	felony	crime	21	22	in florida 's recent cyberbullying case , the police took the unusual step of charging the two teen girls with third-degree felony aggravated stalking .	in florida 's recent cyberbullying case , the police took the unusual step of charging the two teen girls with a bigger crime , called aggravated stalking .
however	still	RB	however	still	4	3	even if convicted , however , the girls were not expected to spend time in juvenile detention because they did not have criminal histories .	but the girls still were not expected to spend time in jail if they were convicted .
institute	college	NN	institute	college	5	14	french visited the oakland military institute , a charter started in 2001 by then-mayor jerry brown .	impressed , she sought to replicate the program , which boasts a 95 percent college attendance rate for its graduates .
aspect	part	NN	aspect	part	2	2	the military aspect of the curriculum is overseen by the california cadet corps , the youth program of the california national guard .	the military part of the school is overseen by the california cadet corps , the youth program of the california national guard .
focus	aim	NN	focus	aim	10	2	but there are no recruiters on campus , and the focus is college preparation , officials said .	and the aim is college preparation , officials said .
military	armed	JJ	military	armed	12	12	but north valley has sparked the interest of some students in a military career .	but north valley has sparked the interest of some students in the armed forces .
merchandise	cargo	NN	merchandise	cargo	15	10	it has allowed con men to make off each year with millions of dollars in merchandise , often food and beverages .	it has allowed thieves to steal millions of dollars in cargo every year .
freight	cargo	NN	freight	cargo	20	20	and experts say the practice is growing so rapidly that it will soon become the most common way to steal freight .	and experts say the practice is growing so rapidly that it will soon become the most common way to steal cargo .
rapidly	fast	RB	rapidly	fast	8	8	and experts say the practice is growing so rapidly that it will soon become the most common way to steal freight .	and experts say the practice is growing so fast that it will soon become the most common way to steal goods .
security	protection	NN	security	protection	15	14	but the industry 's widening use of gps devices , high-tech locks and other advanced security measures have pushed criminals to adopt new hoaxes .	but then the industry had started using tracking devices , high-tech locks and other protection .
internet	web	NN	internet	web	11	1	helping to drive the scams , experts say , is the internet , which offers thieves easy access to vast amounts of information about the trucking industry .	the web offers thieves easy access to vast amounts of information about the trucking industry .
web	internet	NN	web	internet	1	2	the web offers thieves easy access to vast amounts of information about the trucking industry .	using the internet , thieves can look at huge amounts of information about the trucking industry .
assume	take	VB	assume	take	6	5	online databases allow con men to assume the identities of legitimate freight haulers and to trawl for specific commodities they want to steal .	online databases allow them to take the names of real freight haulers and to look for the goods they want to steal .
look	see	VB	look	see	14	5	online databases allow them to take the names of real freight haulers and to look for the goods they want to steal .	internet databases allow them to see the names of real truck companies .
media	newspapers	NNS	media	newspaper	1	0	news media from across the country have reported on just a few of the thefts .	newspapers across the country have reported on a few of the thefts .
proper	right	JJ	proper	right	4	4	they had all the proper paperwork to pick up a load of almonds .	they had all the right paperwork to pick up a load of almonds .
often	usually	RB	often	usually	6	5	companies that have been victimized are often reluctant to talk about their losses .	companies that have been victimized usually do n't want to talk about their losses .
reveal	show	VBP	reveal	show	13	9	but crime reports and associated press interviews with law enforcement and industry leaders reveal an alarming pattern .	but crime reports and interviews with police and leaders show a scary pattern .
fictitious	fake	JJ	fictitious	fake	13	13	lojack examined 947 cargo thefts last year and identified 45 of them as fictitious pickups .	lojack examined 947 cargo thefts last year and identified 45 of them as fake pickups .
doggy	doggie	NN	doggy	doggie	1	5	popular doggy costumes trending on google shopping include hot dog , wonder woman , ewok and matador get-ups .	google shopping listed several popular doggie costumes .
athlete	sportsman	NN	athlete	sportsman	7	7	mourners shared a meal as the great athlete 's body lay in full view inside a lodge .	mourners shared a meal as the great sportsman 's body lay in full view inside a lodge .
sportsman	athlete	NN	sportsman	athlete	7	7	mourners shared a meal as the great sportsman 's body lay in full view inside a lodge .	mourners shared a meal as the great athlete 's body lay in full view inside a lodge .
abrupt	sudden	JJ	abrupt	sudden	5	6	the ceremony came to an abrupt halt when thorpe 's widow , patsy thorpe , barged in .	but the ceremony came to an sudden halt when thorpe 's widow barged in .
downtown	town	NN	downtown	town	8	9	anne marie fitzpatrick , 72 , runs a downtown gift shop in jim thorpe , pa .	anne marie fitzpatrick runs a gift shop in the town of jim thorpe .
comprehend	understand	VB	comprehend	understand	6	6	it is difficult for outsiders to comprehend the adoration for thorpe from townspeople whose only connection to him is his name .	it is difficult for outsiders to understand the adoration for the athlete from the townspeople of jim thorpe .
enormous	huge	JJ	enormous	huge	3	3	los angeles two enormous snakelike fish washed up on southern california beaches last week .	los angeles two huge fish washed up on california beaches last week .
procedure	process	NN	procedure	process	6	6	oil sands production , as the procedure is called , is booming in northeastern alberta .	oil sands production , as the process is called , is booming in alberta , canada .
mostly	mainly	RB	mostly	mainly	17	8	in fort chipewyan , cancer and diseases such as lupus have taken a heavy toll on its mostly indigenous cree , dene and metis indian population .	in fort chipewyan , diseases have struck the mainly cree , dene and metis nations .
accelerate	hasten	VB	accelerate	hasten	7	7	some local residents fear the pipeline would accelerate development of the oil sands , and create additional pollution .	some local residents fear the pipeline would hasten development of the oil sands and create additional pollution .
create	cause	VB	create	cause	15	14	some local residents fear the pipeline would accelerate development of the oil sands , and create additional pollution .	some local residents fear the pipeline would hasten development of the oil sands and cause more pollution .
way	option	NN	way	option	8	7	they were conceived of as a supplement a way to offer some consumers more help to understand their options .	they were only supposed to be an option to help some people understand their choices .
option	way	NN	option	way	7	7	they were only supposed to be an option to help some people understand their choices .	they were only supposed to be a way to help some people understand their choices .
insurance	coverage	NN	insurance	coverage	20	20	others agree that the call centers ' representatives can provide only limited help to those who want to shop for insurance .	others agree that the call centers ' representatives can provide only limited help to those who want to shop for coverage .
recognize	realize	VB	recognize	realize	12	5	but according to shoppers interviewed on monday , many people do n't recognize how common retail discrimination is .	but many people do n't realize how common this unfair treatment is .
consistent	constant	JJ	consistent	constant	7	7	people also do n't realize how the consistent stream of small insults adds up to a large problem .	people also do n't realize how the constant small insults can add up to a large problem .
afterward	afterwards	RB	afterward	afterwards	21	21	trayon christian 's problem was not how he was treated when he went into barneys new york it was what happened afterward .	trayon christian 's problem was not how he was treated when he went into barneys new york it was what happened afterwards .
predominantly	mostly	RB	predominantly	mostly	20	20	for yvonne chan , the reports were a painful reminder of when she worked in a liquor store in a predominantly white massachusetts town .	for yvonne chan , the reports were a painful reminder of when she worked in a liquor store in a mostly white massachusetts town .
store	shop	NN	store	shop	17	6	for yvonne chan , the reports were a painful reminder of when she worked in a liquor store in a predominantly white massachusetts town .	yvonne chan once worked in a shop in a mostly white massachusetts town .
person	someone	NN	person	someone	8	3	about half the time it was a black person .	every few months someone would be caught stealing .
statistics	figures	NNS	statistics	figure	0	1	statistics showing that black customers steal more '' are not really an indication of who 's shoplifting , '' he said .	the figures that show that black customers steal more '' are not really an indication of who 's shoplifting , '' williams said .
celebrated	famous	JJ	celebrated	famous	5	8	san francisco britain 's most celebrated living artist , david hockney , is pioneering in the art world again .	san francisco david hockney is britain 's most famous living artist .
high	12-foot-high	JJ	high	12-foot-high	16	3	but on a recent preview day , it was the ipad pieces , especially the 12-foot high majestic views of yosemite national park that drew gasps .	and especially the 12-foot-high majestic views of yosemite national park .
reproduce	copy	VB	reproduce	copy	9	9	hockey 's technical assistants used large inkjet prints to reproduce the images he created on his ipad .	hockey 's technical assistants used large inkjet prints to copy the images he created on his ipad .
prominent	famous	JJ	prominent	famous	5	5	exhibiting ipad images by a prominent artist in a significant museum gives the medium a boost , say art historians .	exhibiting ipad images by a famous artist in a well-regarded museum gives the medium a boost , say art historians .
create	make	VBP	create	make	18	16	today , he said , most artists have adapted to using a device in some way as they create art .	today , he said , most artists use a digital device in some way when they make art .
article	story	NN	article	story	6	6	the spanish newspaper reports followed an article by the french newspaper le monde .	the spanish newspaper reports followed a story in the french newspaper le monde .
offer	bring	VB	offer	bring	8	7	and few activities are more popular , or offer more potential financial upside , than corn mazes .	few activities are more popular , or bring in more money , than corn mazes .
relatively	fairly	RB	relatively	fairly	14	6	although it sounds like a generations-old tradition , the halloween corn maze is a relatively new and all-american phenomenon .	the halloween corn maze is a fairly new , and all-american , experience .
contrast	comparison	NN	contrast	comparison	1	1	by contrast , the yield from an acre of field corn sells for less than $ 1,000 ; it costs about $ 500 to plant .	by comparison , an acre of field corn sells for less than $ 1,000 .
rush	speed	NN	rush	speed	5	10	many believe the bum 's rush was really a reaction to the girl 's ethnicity , romani , or in the more common and derogatory word , gypsy .	many believe the real reason the police acted with such speed was the girl 's ethnicity , or family background .
derogatory	insulting	JJ	derogatory	insulting	24	11	many believe the bum 's rush was really a reaction to the girl 's ethnicity , romani , or in the more common and derogatory word , gypsy .	she is romani , or to use the more common and insulting word , a gypsy .
too	very	RB	too	very	7	10	experts say that harsh treatment is all too common for members of one of the last ethnic groups in europe for whom slurs and abuse remain widely acceptable .	experts say that bad treatment of roma people is still very common .
gypsy	roma	NN	gypsy	roma	8	8	in slovakia , city governments build walls around gypsy camps and in the czech republic , neo-nazis lead protests against their presence .	in slovakia , city governments build walls around roma camps .
chairman	head	NN	chairman	head	3	3	romani rose is chairman of the central council of sinti and roma in germany .	romani rose is head of a roma council in germany .
hatred	hate	NN	hatred	hate	15	16	standing next to a year-old memorial to victims of the nazis , he said the hatred remains widespread .	standing next to a year-old memorial to romani victims of the nazis , he said the hate remains widespread .
endure	suffer	VBP	endure	suffer	3	3	his people still endure racism and discrimination , he said .	his people still suffer unfair and insulting treatment , he said .
put	get	VB	put	get	13	4	they hope to persuade the other team owners and commissioner roger goodell to put pressure on redskins owner daniel snyder to drop the nickname they find offensive .	the oneidas want to get them to push redskins owner daniel snyder to drop the nickname .
tradition	history	NN	tradition	history	12	9	and many more have rallied around a name they see as a tradition or a tribute .	they see the name redskins as part of league history .
word	term	NN	word	term	15	14	also on wednesday , the san francisco chronicle said it will no longer use the word '' redskins '' when referring to the team .	also wednesday , the san francisco chronicle said it will no longer use the term '' redskins '' when referring to the team .
investigation	examination	NN	investigation	examination	5	1	other pieces uncovered in the investigation included drawings one by paul klee sculptures , antiquities and jewish ceremonial objects .	the examination also found other paintings by well-known painters .
website	site	NN	website	site	6	1	the dutch museums association launched a website tuesday to publish its findings so far , solicit more information about looted artwork and assist heirs in filing claims .	the site will show what the museums have discovered so far , and ask for more information about looted artwork .
artwork	art	NN	artwork	art	20	13	the dutch museums association launched a website tuesday to publish its findings so far , solicit more information about looted artwork and assist heirs in filing claims .	the website will show all it 's learned so far about the stolen art .
site	website	NN	site	website	1	1	the site will show what the museums have discovered so far , and ask for more information about looted artwork .	the website will show all it 's learned so far about the stolen art .
far	also	RB	far	also	13	2	the dutch museums association launched a website tuesday to publish its findings so far , solicit more information about looted artwork and assist heirs in filing claims .	it will also ask for more information about looted artwork , and help relatives make a claim .
exhaustive	complete	JJ	exhaustive	complete	8	8	he said the museum 's research was not exhaustive and new research strategies such as the website will lead to new findings .	he said the museum 's research was not complete and new research ideas such as the website will lead to new findings .
carpeting	carpet	NN	carpeting	carpet	6	6	some boats even had light brown carpeting cut into the shape of beards attached on the front .	some even had beards made of carpet attached on the front .
ban	prevent	VBP	ban	prevent	3	2	though no laws ban women from driving in saudi arabia , the authorities do not issue them drivers ' licenses .	no laws prevent women from driving in saudi arabia .
international	global	JJ	international	global	15	15	in 2011 and 1990 , authorities arrested women for driving , which led to an international outcry .	in 1990 and 2011 , women were arrested for driving , which led to a global outcry .
independently	separately	RB	independently	separately	4	0	instead , they work independently in several cities to edit and upload the videos and help manage the campaign 's website and twitter and youtube accounts .	separately , they upload the videos and help manage the campaign 's website and twitter and youtube accounts .
segment	slice	NN	segment	slice	12	12	the female activist said the role of men shows that a broad segment of society is supportive .	the female activist said the role of men shows that a broad slice of society is supportive .
spot	find	VB	spot	find	2	2	to help spot the wimps , the researchers installed a large tank of xenon gas , cooled to minus 150 degrees fahrenheit .	to help find the wimps , the researchers installed a large tank of cooled xenon gas .
cosmos	universe	NN	cosmos	universe	4	4	about one-quarter of the cosmos is comprised of dark matter five times that of the ordinary matter that makes up everything we see .	about one-quarter of the universe is comprised of dark matter which is five times as much as the ordinary matter that makes up everything we see .
see	believe	VBP	see	believe	22	1	about one-quarter of the cosmos is comprised of dark matter five times that of the ordinary matter that makes up everything we see .	scientists believe about one-quarter of the universe is made up of dark matter .
vital	central	JJ	vital	central	3	3	it is considered vital to all the scientific theories explaining how the universe is expanding and how galaxies move and interact .	it is considered central to all the scientific theories explaining how the universe is expanding and how galaxies move and interact .
direction	course	NN	direction	course	22	1	or , considering the lack of knowledge about what dark matter really is , '' perhaps we 're going in the wrong direction , '' loeb said .	of course , the problem could just be that no one knows what dark matter really is .
manage	cope	VB	manage	cope	4	4	the poor smoke to manage high levels of stress and depression , mallya said , as much a part of poverty as empty pockets .	the poor smoke to cope with high levels of stress and depression , mallya said , as much a part of poverty as empty pockets .
smoking-cessation	smoking	NN	smoking-cessation	smoking	9	12	it 's also harder for the poor to get smoking-cessation counseling and nicotine patches than others who may receive help through insurance , experts said .	it 's also harder for the poor to get counseling to quit smoking than others who may receive help through insurance , experts said .
sunshine	sun	NN	sunshine	sun	19	20	residents have to catch a cable car to the top of a nearby cliff to get a fix of sunshine in the middle of the day .	people who live there have to catch a cable car to the top of a nearby cliff to get some sun in the middle of the day .
shades	sunglasses	NNS	shades	sunglass	16	4	cheering families , some on sun loungers , drinking cocktails and waving norwegian flags , donned shades as the sun crept from behind a cloud .	cheering families put on sunglasses as the sun crept from behind a cloud .
famous	well-known	JJ	famous	well-known	24	10	but his plant and the town he founded developed a special affection in the norwegian imagination as the site of the country 's most famous wartime escapade .	but his plant and the town he founded still was well-known in norway .
wholeheartedly	strongly	RB	wholeheartedly	strongly	17	2	jeffrey flocken , the north american regional director of the international fund for animal welfare , disagrees wholeheartedly .	jeffrey flocken strongly disagrees .
service	department	NN	service	department	5	1	earlier this year , the service granted such a permit for a sport-hunted black rhino taken in namibia in 2009 .	the department granted a permit for a black rhino earlier this year .
respond	answer	VB	respond	answer	7	7	agents for the two players did n't respond to requests for comment .	agents for the two players did n't answer requests for comment .
association	union	NN	association	union	3	2	the nfl players association also planned to look into the matter .	the players union also planned to look into the matter .
brutal	harsh	JJ	brutal	harsh	3	0	hazing , or brutal treatment , of young players has a long history in sports .	harsh treatment of young players has a long history in sports .
brutal	rough	JJ	brutal	rough	3	0	hazing , or brutal treatment , of young players has a long history in sports .	rough treatment of young players has a long history in sports .
harsh	rough	JJ	harsh	rough	0	0	harsh treatment of young players has a long history in sports .	rough treatment of young players has a long history in sports .
nfl-high	high	JJ	nfl-high	high	7	14	their troubled relationship may help explain his nfl-high 35 sacks .	their troubled relationship may help explain why tannehill was sacked 35 times , a high for the nfl .
far	away	RB	far	away	4	5	the small town is far from the city and the '' kid cages '' are there to protect them from wolves .	the town is small and away from the city .
note	point	VBP	note	point	4	1	defenders of the wolves note there have been no documented wolf attacks in new mexico or arizona .	they point out that there have been no recorded wolf attacks in new mexico or arizona .
point	note	VBP	point	note	1	1	they point out that there have been no recorded wolf attacks in new mexico or arizona .	they note there have been no recorded wolf attacks in new mexico or arizona .
overwhelming	huge	JJ	overwhelming	huge	8	10	he had been heavily favored , holding an overwhelming lead in the polls for weeks .	he had been heavily favored to win and held a huge lead in surveys for weeks .
approve	support	VBP	approve	support	6	5	though polling shows new yorkers largely approve of bloomberg 's policies , those same surveys revealed the city was hungry for a change .	polling shows new yorkers mostly support bloomberg 's practices .
basketball	ball	NN	basketball	ball	3	10	one depicted a basketball court overlaid with shaded green squares , the darkest squares showing the most likely spots where a rebound would fall given the shot taken .	the darkest squares show the most likely spots where a ball would fall depending on the shot taken .
admit	say	VBP	admit	say	9	1	even the biggest supporters of this type of math admit that these insights should be only one part of a team 's decision-making .	some say the new system should be only one part of a how a team makes decisions .
analyze	study	VB	analyze	study	10	10	one reason is that baseball is slower and easier to analyze .	one reason is that baseball is slower and easier to study .
allow	let	VB	allow	let	2	2	that would allow the information to be available to the whole league .	that would let the whole league have the information .
info	information	NN	info	information	1	1	the info is electronically transmitted to a company to be put into groups by passes , dribbles , and shots , for instance .	the information is electronically sent to a company to be put into categories such as passes , dribbles and shots .
information	info	NN	information	info	1	1	the information is electronically sent to a company to be put into categories such as passes , dribbles and shots .	the info is electronically sent to a company .
develop	create	VBP	develop	create	8	8	that information could help the team 's trainers develop practice plans that keep him spry for the rest of the season .	that information could help the team 's trainers create practice plans that keep him healthy for the rest of the season .
develop	make	VBP	develop	make	8	7	that information could help the team 's trainers develop practice plans that keep him spry for the rest of the season .	that could help the team 's trainers make practice plans that keep him healthy for the rest of the season .
defense	military	NN	defense	military	8	7	they have completed projects for the department of defense and the national science foundation involving the movement of vehicles , geo-tagged social media and mobile devices .	they have worked on projects for the military .
pleased	happy	JJ	pleased	happy	3	3	she was n't pleased .	she was not happy .
modify	change	VB	modify	change	10	10	the best results came when teenagers had a chance to modify their behavior before the device sent alerts to parents .	the best results came when teenagers had a chance to change their behavior before the device sent alerts to parents .
impose	place	VBP	impose	place	3	3	graduated licensing laws impose curfews , passenger limits and other rules on new , young drivers to reduce risky driving .	graduated licensing laws place passenger limits and other rules on new , young drivers .
instructor	teacher	NN	instructor	teacher	5	5	jeff pierson , a driving instructor in milwaukee who owns safety first driving school , thought his teenage son was a great driver .	jeff pierson is a driving teacher in milwaukee who owns safety first driving school .
gentleman	man	NN	gentleman	man	3	2	london the elderly gentleman appeared nervous when authorities questioned him during a customs check aboard a train from switzerland to germany .	the elderly man was first noticed by police in 2010 while traveling on a train from switzerland to germany .
looted	stolen	JJ	looted	stolen	8	11	many dealers who helped the german government handle looted art were able to build big collections for themselves , he said .	many of the sellers who worked with the germans to handle stolen art were able to build big collections for themselves , he said .
remain	stay	VB	remain	stay	20	20	if the rightful owners of some of the artworks can not be established , it 's possible that they will remain in gurlitt 's possession .	if the rightful owners of some of the artworks can not be found , it 's possible that they will stay with gurlitt .
keep	stay	VB	keep	stay	20	20	if the rightful owners of some of the artworks can not be determined , it 's possible that gurlitt will keep them .	if the rightful owners of some of the artworks can not be found , it 's possible that they will stay with gurlitt .
make	produce	VB	make	produce	14	7	but no contracts have been signed , and the pentagon has not ventured to make a cost estimate .	military officials say they are trying to produce a working model within the next 12 months .
enable	allow	VB	enable	allow	8	6	relying on tiny motors , the exoskeleton would enable a soldier to run and jump without strain while carrying 100 or more pounds .	tiny motors in the exoskeleton would allow a soldier to run and jump without strain while carrying 100 or more pounds .
enable	give	VB	enable	give	8	6	relying on tiny motors , the exoskeleton would enable a soldier to run and jump without strain while carrying 100 or more pounds .	tiny motors in the exoskeleton would give the soldier extra strength .
allow	give	VB	allow	give	6	6	tiny motors in the exoskeleton would allow a soldier to run and jump without strain while carrying 100 or more pounds .	tiny motors in the exoskeleton would give the soldier extra strength .
minor	small	JJ	minor	small	12	8	it would , at least in theory , be able to stanch minor wounds with inflatable tourniquets in the unlikely event the armor is breached .	the suit would also be able to treat small wounds in the unlikely event the armor is pierced .
armor	suit	NN	armor	suit	22	1	it would , at least in theory , be able to stanch minor wounds with inflatable tourniquets in the unlikely event the armor is breached .	the suit would also be able to treat small wounds .
homage	tribute	NN	homage	tribute	8	8	even the project 's formal name is an homage to iron man .	even the project 's formal name is a tribute to iron man : it 's called the '' tactical assault light operator suit , '' or talos .
sound	seem	VB	sound	seem	4	8	the updated model may sound outlandish , but the pentagon has a history of developing cutting-edge technology that transformed the battlefield .	the new updated model the army wants may seem a bit far out .
cutting-edge	advanced	JJ	cutting-edge	advanced	15	14	the updated model may sound outlandish , but the pentagon has a history of developing cutting-edge technology that transformed the battlefield .	but it should n't be forgotten that the pentagon has a history of developing advanced technology .
include	add	VB	include	add	10	10	to make the suit work , designers will need to include a battery .	to make the suit work , designers will need to add a battery .
sibling	brother	NN	sibling	brother	7	6	among them , 59 had a full sibling with an autism spectrum disorder and thus were considered at high risk of developing the condition themselves .	among them , 59 had a brother or sister with a autism .
low-risk	low	JJ	low-risk	low	19	14	an additional 51 infants who had no first - , second - or third-degree relatives with autism were considered low-risk , and they served as controls .	an additional 51 infants who had no close relatives with autism were considered at low risk , and they served as controls .
caregiver	caregiving	NN	caregiver	caregiving	8	7	the infants were shown '' scenes of naturalistic caregiver interaction '' while the researchers used eye-tracking technology to monitor where the babies focused their gazes .	the infants were shown scenes of typical caregiving while the researchers used eye-tracking technology to monitor where the babies focused their gazes .
apparent	noticeable	JJ	apparent	noticeable	10	10	the data showed that distinct differences in eye interest became apparent when the babies were between 2 and 6 months old .	the data showed that distinct differences in eye interest became noticeable when the babies were between 2 and 6 months old .
noticeable	apparent	JJ	noticeable	apparent	10	9	the data showed that distinct differences in eye interest became noticeable when the babies were between 2 and 6 months old .	the results showed that differences in eye interest became apparent when the babies were between 2 and 6 months old .
period	time	NN	period	time	2	2	during that period , the boys in the control group spent more time looking at the caregiver 's eyes .	during that time , the boys in the control group looked at the caregiver 's eyes longer .
behemoth	giant	NN	behemoth	giant	2	2	the fast-food behemoth is n't the only one ditching the traditional dollar deal .	the fast-food giant is n't the only one ditching the traditional dollar deal .
buck	dollar	NN	buck	dollar	10	10	rising costs and changing tastes are pushing prices past the buck barrier .	rising costs and changing tastes are pushing prices above a dollar .
deal	market	NN	deal	market	17	2	in a quick-service market overrun with more upscale outlets and foodies seeking premium ingredients , the dollar deal may be doomed .	the fast-food market is overrun with more upscale chains and people seeking premium ingredients .
shop	store	NN	shop	store	12	18	the original painting first sold for $ 50 at a manhattan thrift shop that benefits housing works , an organization that fights homelessness and aids .	the original painting depicted a mountainous landscape , which sold for $ 50 at a manhattan charity thrift store called housing works .
paper	newspaper	NN	paper	newspaper	1	1	the paper would n't print it , so he posted it on his website .	the newspaper would n't print it , so banksy posted it on his website .
eliminate	rid	VB	eliminate	rid	10	14	chicago the food and drug administration moved thursday to virtually eliminate trans fat , an artificially created artery-clogging substance , from americans ' diets .	chicago the food and drug administration -lrb- fda -rrb- took a step thursday to rid trans fat from americans ' diets .
substance	ingredient	NN	substance	ingredient	18	17	chicago the food and drug administration moved thursday to virtually eliminate trans fat , an artificially created artery-clogging substance , from americans ' diets .	chicago the food and drug administration -lrb- fda -rrb- took a step thursday to eliminate an unhealthy ingredient from americans ' diets .
rid	eliminate	VB	rid	eliminate	14	14	chicago the food and drug administration -lrb- fda -rrb- took a step thursday to rid trans fat from americans ' diets .	chicago the food and drug administration -lrb- fda -rrb- took a step thursday to eliminate an unhealthy ingredient from americans ' diets .
seek	get	VB	seek	get	13	15	the new guidelines will require companies wishing to use the ingredient to first seek approval from the fda .	the new guidelines mean that companies that want to use the ingredient have to first get the fda 's approval .
claim	say	VB	claim	say	4	6	companies also could not claim their food contains '' zero grams trans fat '' if the product has a half-gram or less per serving .	also , food companies can currently say that their food has '' zero grams trans fat '' if the product has a half-gram or less per serving .
diet	nutrition	NN	diet	nutrition	16	4	nutritionists say it 's a win that will take a dangerous substance out of the american diet .	scientists who focus on nutrition say the change is a win .
preserve	keep	VBP	preserve	keep	1	1	they preserve flavor , make crusts flaky and keep peanut butter from separating .	they keep pie crusts flaky , for example .
take	get	VB	take	get	9	3	the fda has opened a 60-day review period to take input from the food industry and other experts .	the fda will get responses from the food industry and other experts over the next 60 days .
note	say	VBP	note	say	2	2	nutrition experts note that many people are largely unaware of the actual trans fat content in foods .	nutrition experts say that many people do not know how much actual trans fat is in foods .
farm	business	NN	farm	business	12	1	his father could n't afford to pay him back on the dairy farm .	and business slowed down at the company he worked for in minnesota .
ooze	sludge	NN	ooze	sludge	7	8	klefstad finally emerges his jumpsuit splattered with ooze .	klefstad finally comes out his jumpsuit splattered with sludge .
oil-field	oil	NN	oil-field	oil	24	21	it 's now valued at more than $ 250,000 , and he makes nearly that much a year working for weatherford , a swiss-based oil-field services firm .	it 's now valued at more than $ 250,000 , and he makes nearly that much a year working for an oil firm .
firm	company	NN	firm	company	26	11	it 's now valued at more than $ 250,000 , and he makes nearly that much a year working for weatherford , a swiss-based oil-field services firm .	he makes nearly that much a year working for an oil company .
indication	sign	NN	indication	sign	19	19	it was both part of the annual display of thanks to those who have served their country and an indication of the changing face of the military .	it was both part of the annual display of thanks to those who have served their country and an sign of the changing face of the military .
fine	good	JJ	fine	good	4	4	it requires creativity and fine motor skills and it 's screen-free except for the youtube videos kids watch to learn new techniques .	it requires creativity and good hand-eye coordination , and it 's screen-free except for the youtube videos kids watch to learn new techniques .
case	way	NN	case	way	11	20	the fact that it appears over and over reveals a remarkable case of '' convergent evolution '' in language , they added .	the fact that it appears over and over shows that languages can develop separately , but in much the same way , they added .
crucial	important	JJ	crucial	important	4	4	but it plays a crucial role in conversations , said herbert clark , a psychologist at stanford university who studies language .	but it plays an important part in conversations , said herbert clark , who teaches language studies at stanford university .
way	track	NN	way	track	21	12	when one person misses a bit of information and communication breaks down , there needs to be a quick and effective way to fix it , he said .	when a person misses a bit of information , they can lose track of the conversation .
tower	building	NN	tower	building	9	1	new york new york 's new world trade center tower is the nation 's tallest skyscraper , a panel of experts ruled on tuesday .	the building is in new york .
ruling	decision	NN	ruling	decision	15	11	the chicago-based council on tall buildings and urban habitat is the group that made the ruling .	the chicago-based council on tall buildings and urban habitat made the decision .
higher	bigger	JJR	higher	bigger	14	14	they wanted to show that new york was not afraid of building an even higher structure in place of the twin towers targeted by terrorists on sept .	they wanted to show that new york was n't afraid to build an even bigger building where the old buildings fell .
issue	case	NN	issue	case	3	3	that was the issue at hand with the new building in lower manhattan , one world trade center .	that was the case with the new building in lower manhattan , one world trade center .
adapt	adjust	VB	adapt	adjust	17	18	a federal study released this month brought more good news : coral reefs may be able to adapt to warmer sea temperatures .	and this month , a new study brought more good news : coral reefs may be able to adjust to warmer sea temperatures .
rebound	recovery	NN	rebound	recovery	2	2	the reef rebound also has been helped by improved sewage systems , which prevent polluted water from seeping into the ocean .	the reef recovery also has been helped by improved sewage systems , which prevent polluted water from seeping into the ocean .
skirmish	clash	NN	skirmish	clash	8	8	the ship sank 34 years later during a skirmish with the french fleet .	the ship sank 34 years later during a clash with the french fleet .
clash	fight	NN	clash	fight	8	8	the ship sank 34 years later during a clash with the french fleet .	the ship sank 34 years later during a fight with the french fleet .
craft	ship	NN	craft	ship	2	6	another historic craft , the hms victory , is also anchored at portsmouth .	the hms victory is another famous ship in history .
strive	try	VB	strive	try	5	5	but hammond said britain would strive to keep military shipbuilding within its own borders no matter how those borders may be drawn .	but hammond said britain would try to keep military shipbuilding within its own borders .
appear	look	VB	appear	look	6	4	the '' libraries '' themselves might appear to passers-by as large dollhouses or birdhouses .	the libraries themselves might look like large dollhouses or birdhouses to people passing by .
storm	typhoon	NN	storm	typhoon	20	15	millions of filipinos are desperately searching for food and shelter in the wreckage left by typhoon haiyan , a large storm that swept through the country .	millions of filipinos are searching for food and shelter in the ruins left by a typhoon .
approximately	roughly	RB	approximately	roughly	8	8	at least 10 percent of the country 's approximately 100 million people live and work in other nations .	at least 10 percent of the country 's roughly 100 million people live and work in other nations .
seek	find	VB	seek	find	21	11	for more than 30 years , the philippines ' legions of jobless and those lacking enough work have been encouraged to seek their fortunes elsewhere .	for more than 30 years , filipinos have gone overseas to find jobs .
serve	work	VBP	serve	work	11	10	and it is galvanizing the largess of the foreign populations they serve .	and it is increasing the generosity of the countries they work in .
typhoon	storm	NN	typhoon	storm	10	11	that has provided a committed force to raise funds for typhoon victims .	that has provided a force of people to raise money for storm victims , said albert santoli .
relief	help	NN	relief	help	4	11	the group provides emergency relief to the philippines .	he 's a filipino who runs a group that provides emergency help to the philippines .
tangible	real	JJ	tangible	real	11	11	familiarity with the islands ' people has made the crisis more tangible , filipino expats say .	familiarity with the islands ' people has made the crisis more real , filipino expats say .
purpose	reason	NN	purpose	reason	14	15	but right now it is using its motorbike and bicycle delivery services for another purpose .	but right now it is using its motorbike and bicycle delivery services for a different reason .
lead	drive	NN	lead	drive	14	13	even in countries with relatively few filipino workers , the expats have taken the lead in fund drives .	even in countries with few filipino workers , the expats are leading the drive to raise money .
fund	money	NN	fund	money	16	16	even in countries with relatively few filipino workers , the expats have taken the lead in fund drives .	even in countries with few filipino workers , the expats are leading the drive to raise money .
search	find	VB	search	find	13	11	they are using the internet and manila government databases to help filipinos abroad search for missing relatives .	they are using the internet and government lists to help filipinos find missing brothers , sisters , fathers and mothers .
primary	elementary	JJ	primary	elementary	12	12	it was a traditional oasis in the middle of the week for primary school students to rest from the rigors of school life .	it was a traditional oasis in the middle of the week for elementary school students .
reform	change	NN	reform	change	15	12	caught flat-footed , the deeply unpopular government of president francois hollande , who pledged the reform during his election campaign last year , is struggling to defend it .	the deeply unpopular government of president francois hollande , who pledged the change during his election campaign last year , is struggling to defend it .
education	school	NN	education	school	4	3	france created its public education system in the late 19th century .	france created its school system in the 1800s .
put	made	VBN	put	make	6	6	parents claim the shift has been put into place chaotically , even those who acknowledge that the old system was flawed .	parents claim the shift has been made poorly .
crazy	mad	JJ	crazy	mad	23	5	in paris , parents are fuming that instead of five days of equal length , the city 's new school schedule is a crazy quilt .	in paris , parents are mad .
middle-class	class	NN	middle-class	class	11	11	businesses have sprung up to cater to the wednesday whims of middle-class families , offering such get-ahead programs for youngsters as english classes .	businesses have sprung up to serve the wednesday whims of middle class families , offering such get-ahead programs for youngsters as english classes .
affluent	wealthy	JJ	affluent	wealthy	9	8	isabelle nizard helped put together a petition from her affluent neighborhood in the 16th arrondissement demanding that the mayor of paris scrap the schedule revamp .	isabelle helped put together a petition from her wealthy neighborhood demanding that the mayor of paris scrap the schedule revamp .
affluent	rich	JJ	affluent	rich	9	12	isabelle nizard helped put together a petition from her affluent neighborhood in the 16th arrondissement demanding that the mayor of paris scrap the schedule revamp .	isabelle helped put together a letter signed by the people in her rich neighborhood demanding that the mayor of paris stop the new schedule .
time	age	NN	time	age	2	12	by the time they turn 15 , nearly 40 percent of french students have had to repeat a grade triple the average rate of most industrialized countries .	almost half of french students have had to repeat a grade by age 15 .
diploma	degree	NN	diploma	degree	11	11	more than 15 percent drop out or finish school without a diploma .	more than 15 percent drop out or finish school without a degree .
paper	study	NN	paper	study	4	5	lead author of the paper , tseng is currently a postdoctoral fellow at new york 's american museum of natural history .	lead author of the new study , tseng is currently working at new york 's american museum of natural history .
multiple	various	JJ	multiple	various	4	4	they then radiated into multiple species lion , tiger , jaguar , leopard about 6 million years ago .	they then evolved into various species about 6 million years ago .
reconcile	match	VB	reconcile	match	15	15	the team used the new fossils and other specimens to recalibrate the evolutionary tree and reconcile it with a dna-based timeline .	the team used the new fossils and other specimens to recalibrate the evolutionary tree and match it up with a dna-based timeline .
enormous	big	JJ	enormous	big	1	12	although enormous gaps remain in the fossil record , the newly reconstructed tree lends weight to the theory that the cats arose and flourished in asia .	nonetheless , the newly reconstructed evolutionary tree supports the theory that the big cats arose and flourished in asia .
come	get	VB	come	get	16	12	a 20-year-old woman in taiwan has the unfortunate distinction of being the first patient known to come down with a strain of bird flu called h6n1 .	a 20-year-old woman in taiwan has become the first patient known to get sick with a rare strain of bird flu .
influenza	flu	NN	influenza	flu	20	11	x-rays revealed that she had a lower respiratory infection , but throat swabs failed to turn up signs of known influenza strains .	but tests failed to turn up signs of known types of flu .
authentic	real	JJ	authentic	real	7	7	the company gets close to creating that authentic texture by blasting soy and pea proteins through an alternating cascade of high heat and high pressure .	the company gets close to creating that real feel by blasting protein from soybeans and peas with high heat and high pressure .
genuine	real	JJ	genuine	real	8	7	the result is mock meat that replicates the genuine product enough to make people forget the tastes of springy tofu turkey and other unappetizing fake meat .	the result is mock meat that is real enough to make people forget springy tofu turkey and other fake meat .
refine	improve	VB	refine	improve	4	3	whole foods market helped refine the product before rolling it out at its stores last year .	whole foods helped improve the product .
mouth-feel	feel	NN	mouth-feel	feel	22	6	janet corvin , 52 , has been a vegetarian since she was a child but still desires the taste and texture the mouth-feel of meat .	she still loves the taste and feel of meat .
combination	mix	NN	combination	mix	6	6	the trick was finding the right combination of the two .	the trick was finding the right mix of the two .
segment	portion	NN	segment	portion	4	3	but a relatively small segment of deal-seeking consumers will be glad for the extended black friday , duber-smith said .	but a small portion of deal-seeking consumers will be glad for the extended black friday , duber-smith said .
portion	segment	NN	portion	segment	3	3	but a small portion of deal-seeking consumers will be glad for the extended black friday , duber-smith said .	but a small segment of deal-seeking consumers will be glad for the extended black friday , darrin duber-smith said .
segment	group	NN	segment	group	4	3	but a relatively small segment of deal-seeking consumers will be glad for the extended black friday , duber-smith said .	but a small group of shoppers who want deals will be glad for the extended black friday , darrin duber-smith said .
nomination	candidate	NN	nomination	candidate	15	15	he visited the montana reservation when he was challenging hillary clinton for the democratic presidential nomination in his first presidential campaign .	he visited the montana reservation when he was challenging hillary clinton to be the democratic candidate in his first presidential primary campaign .
fiscal	financial	JJ	fiscal	financial	25	25	but she told the tribal leaders that the obama administration is determined to help '' make your world a better place '' despite the tough fiscal climate .	but she told the tribal leaders that the obama administration is determined to help '' make your world a better place '' despite the tough financial climate .
reduce	lower	VB	reduce	lower	12	12	attorney general eric holder said the administration wanted to do more to reduce crime in indian country .	attorney general eric holder said the government wanted to do more to lower crime in indian country .
family-medicine	medicine	NN	family-medicine	medicine	23	24	he saluted the puyallup tribal health authority in washington state , where he said tribal members had created the country 's first tribal family-medicine residency program .	he saluted the puyallup tribal health authority in washington state , where he said tribal members had created the country 's first tribal advanced medicine program .
chairman	leader	NN	chairman	leader	5	4	arlan melendez is the tribal chairman of the reno-sparks indian colony in nevada .	arlan melendez is the leader of the reno-sparks indian colony in nevada .
gas	gasoline	NN	gas	gasoline	18	4	the oceans are absorbing a quarter of the carbon dioxide emitted by burning coal , oil and natural gas .	humans burning coal , gasoline and oil has produce a gas called carbon dioxide .
sea	water	NN	sea	water	7	4	that , researchers say , is causing sea chemistry to change faster than it has for tens of millions of years .	this is making the water change faster than it has for tens of millions of years .
commemoration	remembrance	NN	commemoration	remembrance	2	2	23 in commemoration of its delivery nov .	23 in remembrance of its delivery on nov .
extensive	great	JJ	extensive	great	15	8	days earlier , the paper then called the patriot &amp; amp ; union had devoted extensive coverage to the president 's visit to the pennsylvania city .	days earlier , the paper had devoted a great deal of coverage to the president 's visit to the pennsylvania city .
reproduction	copying	NN	reproduction	copying	21	21	that 's because lincoln had written on both sides of a piece of paper , and technology did not allow the reproduction of double-sided documents .	that 's because lincoln had written on both sides of a piece of paper , and technology did not allow the copying of double-sided documents .
create	develop	VB	create	develop	9	12	and it should work to block any move to create state-by-state '' patchwork '' requirements for vehicles .	and it should work to block any move where states would each develop their own standards for vehicles .
transportation	transit	NN	transportation	transit	10	5	kirk steudle is the director of michigan 's department of transportation , but he also testified on behalf of the american association of state highway and transportation officials .	kirk steudle runs michigan 's transit department .
accurate	correct	JJ	accurate	correct	2	1	their uncannily accurate predictions were combined with television and radio warnings , text-message alerts and storm sirens .	their correct predictions were combined with television and radio warnings , text-message alerts and storm sirens .
count	number	NN	count	number	12	8	by monday , another , more ordinary reason for the low death count came out .	by monday , another reason for the low number of deaths came out .
nearly	close	RB	nearly	close	10	10	a friend also called to warn him the storm was nearly upon him .	a friend also called to warn him the storm was close .
foundation	base	NN	foundation	base	23	13	on monday , he was surveying the damage on crutches after suffering a leg injury when the wind knocked his home off its foundation .	he suffered a leg injury when the wind knocked his home off its base .
moisture	water	NN	moisture	water	7	7	it suggested there was more than enough moisture fuel for storms making its way northeast from the gulf of mexico .	it suggested there was more than enough water in the air for a big storm .
preliminary	early	JJ	preliminary	early	9	9	so far this year , there have been 886 preliminary reports of tornadoes , compared with about 1,400 preliminary reports usually sent to the weather service by mid-november .	so far this year , there have been 886 early reports of tornadoes , compared with about 1,400 early reports usually sent to the weather service by mid-november .
moist	wet	JJ	moist	wet	7	8	the storms erupted because of unusually warm moist air from louisiana to michigan that was then hit by an upper-level cold front .	the storms erupted because of unusually warm , wet air from louisiana to michigan that was then hit by an upper-level cold front .
benefit	gain	NN	benefit	gain	7	3	she said the students in her school benefit from meeting people from other parts of the world .	her american students gain from meeting people from other parts of the world , she added .
prosperous	rich	JJ	prosperous	rich	2	1	with newly prosperous families eager to educate their children in the west , china has become the latest frontier in public school financing .	newly rich families are eager to educate their children in the west .
liaison	link	NN	liaison	link	11	11	in addition to recruiting students , the companies serve as a liaison between parents and schools and set up the students ' living arrangements .	in addition to recruiting students , the companies serve as a link between parents and schools and set up the students ' living arrangements .
receive	accept	VB	receive	accept	5	5	the web is ready to receive donations .	the web is ready to accept people 's donations .
donate	give	VB	donate	give	7	7	apple even has created a way to donate via the itunes store .	apple even has created a way to give money through the itunes store .
catastrophe	disaster	NN	catastrophe	disaster	19	16	haiti , says feldmann , '' was an example of a successful appeal because the media helped bring the catastrophe alive .	raising money for haiti , says feldmann , was successful because the media helped bring the disaster alive and make it real .
various	many	JJ	various	many	21	8	state leaders who developed the common core a set of preferred k 12 course offerings for public schools omitted cursive for various reasons .	cursive was dropped from the common core for many different reasons .
interpret	read	VB	interpret	read	13	6	they further argue that scholars of the future will lose the ability to interpret valuable writing from the past if they ca n't read cursive .	they wo n't be able to read important writing from the past if they ca n't read cursive .
valuable	important	JJ	valuable	important	14	7	they further argue that scholars of the future will lose the ability to interpret valuable writing from the past if they ca n't read cursive .	they wo n't be able to read important writing from the past if they ca n't read cursive .
paper-and-pencil	paper	NN	paper-and-pencil	paper	10	8	the first is that most standardized tests are still in paper-and-pencil format .	the first is that most tests still use paper and pencil .
paper-and-pencil	pencil	NN	paper-and-pencil	pencil	10	10	the first is that most standardized tests are still in paper-and-pencil format .	the first is that most tests still use paper and pencil .
model	example	NN	model	example	4	3	ride became a role model for young girls , he said .	ride became an example for young girls , he said .
distinct	different	JJ	distinct	different	12	12	a new study of students in germany reveals that there are five distinct types of boredom .	a new study of students in germany reveals that there are five different types of boredom .
questionnaire	survey	NN	questionnaire	survey	11	11	when the pdas beeped , subjects were asked to complete a questionnaire about what they were doing and how they felt about it .	when the pdas beeped , students were asked to complete a survey .
vie	compete	VB	vie	compete	4	4	the next-generation systems will vie for the hearts and wallets of game aficionados as well as a coveted place under the living room television .	the next-generation systems will compete for the hearts and wallets of game aficionados , as well as a coveted place under the television .
roughly	almost	RB	roughly	almost	15	0	contrary to popular stereotypes , 45 percent of those who play games are women and roughly one-third are older than 36 .	almost half of those who play games are women .
agrarian	agricultural	JJ	agrarian	agricultural	12	12	others suggest they were raised as a source of meat in early agrarian societies in asia .	others suggest they were raised as a source of meat in early agricultural societies in asia .
east	eastern	JJ	east	eastern	22	20	until recently , many archaeologists and biologists believed that dogs were first domesticated no more than 13,000 years ago , either in east asia or the middle east .	until recently , many archaeologists and biologists believed that dogs were domesticated less than 13,000 years ago , either in eastern asia or the middle east .
high	strong	JJ	high	strong	24	20	in the meantime , experts are left to ponder this latest development , as well as the reason why the scientific stakes seem so high .	in the meantime , experts are left to think about this latest development , and why the scientists have such strong feelings about it .
question	issue	NN	question	issue	15	6	in the meantime , experts think about why there are such strong feelings about this question .	there are strong feelings about the issue .
baby	child	NN	baby	child	17	17	couples in which either partner is an only child will now be allowed to have a second baby .	previously , only couples in which both parents were only children were permitted to have a second child .
child	baby	NN	child	baby	17	13	previously , only couples in which both parents were only children were permitted to have a second child .	before , both parents needed to be only children to have a second baby .
major	huge	JJ	major	huge	8	8	still , population experts are not expecting a major baby boom .	still , population experts are not expecting a huge baby boom .
islamist	muslim	JJ	islamist	muslim	9	9	much of the recent anti-christian violence was triggered by islamist religious leaders preaching that christians were the reason for morsi 's removal from power .	many of the attacks on christians were caused by muslim preachers .
little	much	JJ	little	much	6	3	amid such fears , there is little pressure on the government to do more for christians .	there is not much pressure on the government to do more for christians .
specific	special	JJ	specific	special	7	8	a police colonel said there are no specific efforts to go after those who destroyed the churches .	a police colonel said there will be no special efforts to go after those who destroyed the churches .
state	government	NN	state	government	4	6	every attack gives the state more leverage to go after political islamists , all with the public 's approval .	every attack on christians gives the government more reasons to chase after their political opponents , the islamists , all with the public 's approval .
long-dead	long	JJ	long-dead	long	12	3	on thursday , alabama 's parole board pardoned the last of the long-dead scottsboro boys , nine black teenagers falsely accused of rape in 1931 .	the nine are long dead .
long-dead	dead	JJ	long-dead	dead	12	4	on thursday , alabama 's parole board pardoned the last of the long-dead scottsboro boys , nine black teenagers falsely accused of rape in 1931 .	the nine are long dead .
judicial	legal	JJ	judicial	legal	10	10	as sheila washington read about one of america 's greatest judicial miscarriages , her father caught her with the book .	as sheila washington read about one of america 's greatest legal injustices , her father caught her with the book and snatched it from her hands .
project	plan	NN	project	plan	5	5	she began work on a project on the scottsboro boys , developing a museum as a way to remember their suffering .	washington began work on a plan to make a museum about the scottsboro boys .
plan	project	NN	plan	project	5	5	washington began work on a plan to make a museum about the scottsboro boys .	washington began work on a project on the scottsboro boys .
legislation	bill	NN	legislation	bill	3	4	he drew up legislation that would allow for posthumous pardons in cases of racial discrimination .	he drew up a bill that would allow for pardons for dead people in cases of race discrimination .
seven-barrel	seven-barreled	JJ	seven-barrel	seven-barreled	6	3	the cold war-era plane has a seven-barrel gatling gun the size of a volkswagen beetle in its nose .	it has a seven-barreled gun the size of a small car .
continually	always	RB	continually	always	18	17	but because these entrenched programs support troops and provide thousands of jobs across many states , congress has continually come to their rescue .	but because these programs support troops and provide thousands of jobs across many states , congress has always come to their rescue .
air	sky	NN	air	sky	4	18	going forward , the air force has said it wants to rid itself of one-mission planes in favor of a fleet of multi-role aircraft .	instead , it wants to build planes that can blast enemies apart on the ground and in the sky .
sky	air	NN	sky	air	18	14	instead , it wants to build planes that can blast enemies apart on the ground and in the sky .	it wants planes that can kill enemies on the ground and fight in the air against other jets .
fighter	jet	NN	fighter	jet	10	4	the program is based on a plan to develop a fighter plane that could be used by the air force , navy and marines .	the military likes the jet because it could be used by the air force , navy and marines .
jet	plane	NN	jet	plane	4	6	the military likes the jet because it could be used by the air force , navy and marines .	the idea is to have a plane that could be used by the air force , navy and marines .
mercilessly	relentlessly	RB	mercilessly	relentlessly	21	21	eliazar arines , whose son is in the eighth grade , told irving that last year her boy was ridiculed so mercilessly that he was hospitalized for depression .	eliazar arines , whose son is in the eighth grade , told irving that last year her boy was ridiculed so relentlessly that he was hospitalized for depression .
class	school	NN	class	school	12	3	children were accosting adults , smoking marijuana , making sexual noises in class , the complaint said .	they smoked in school .
difficult	troubled	JJ	difficult	troubled	19	13	before school began , irving asked the school to put together a list of the school 's 50 most difficult students .	irving asked the school to put together a list of the 50 most troubled students .
talk	say	VBP	talk	say	3	3	teachers and administrators talk about certain students like they 're a problem .	teachers and administrators say that certain students are a problem .
assess	judge	VB	assess	judge	2	2	teachers would assess their behavior on a scale of one to five during each period of each day .	teachers would judge their behavior on a scale of one to five and if they behave well consistently , they could leave the program .
trash	garbage	NN	trash	garbage	8	8	they are expected to pick up their own trash and get to class on time .	students are expected to pick up their own garbage and get to class on time .
officer	office	NN	officer	office	23	5	toward the end of the school day , irving called in ernesto , his mother , a counselor , translator and school police officer .	irving called ernesto into his office .
challenge	problem	NN	challenge	problem	4	4	still , the biggest challenge remains : learning .	still , the biggest problem is learning .
test	testing	NN	test	testing	14	7	irving has said he wants the school to improve on its dismal 650 state test average by 50 points this year .	irving wants the school to improve its testing scores by 50 points this year .
significant	major	JJ	significant	major	4	4	that would be a significant achievement but still far below state targets .	that would be a major achievement .
intelligence	spy	NN	intelligence	spy	16	16	she also was the first to crack the secret messages of the abwehr , the german intelligence service .	she also was the first to crack the secret messages of the abwehr , the german spy group .
innards	insides	NNS	innards	inside	19	17	according to batey , one new decoder fled bletchley after hearing a detailed description of the enigma 's convoluted innards .	according to batey , one new decoder fled bletchley after hearing a detailed description of enigma 's insides .
make	take	VB	make	take	19	16	she was enrolled at university college , london , when she was recruited for the job she thought would make her a glamorous spy .	she was studying at university college , london , when she was noticed and asked to take the code breaking job .
job	work	NN	job	work	15	15	she was enrolled at university college , london , when she was recruited for the job she thought would make her a glamorous spy .	batey was studying at university college , london , when she was asked to come work at bletchley park .
take	come	VB	take	come	16	14	she was studying at university college , london , when she was noticed and asked to take the code breaking job .	batey was studying at university college , london , when she was asked to come work at bletchley park .
make	become	VB	make	become	19	4	she was enrolled at university college , london , when she was recruited for the job she thought would make her a glamorous spy .	she thought she would become a glamorous spy .
heroine	hero	NN	heroine	hero	9	8	by then , batey was regarded as a national heroine but she was discomfited by such praise .	by then , batey was known as a hero to her fellow britons .
edge	advantage	NN	edge	advantage	10	10	the researchers say their new ceramic also would have an edge over '' thin-film '' solar panels .	the researchers say their new ceramic also would have an advantage over '' thin-film '' solar panels .
intriguing	interesting	JJ	intriguing	interesting	8	7	and for scientists , the sun remains an intriguing source of untapped power .	for scientists , the sun remains an interesting source of untapped power .
full-skull	full	JJ	full-skull	full	12	11	and while the couple of dozen bones do not include the ideal full-skull find , it is '' very significant , '' he said .	and while the couple of dozen bones do not include a full skull , they are still a '' very significant '' find , he said .
relative	related	JJ	relative	related	2	2	its best-known relative might be the giganotosaurus , found in south america .	it 's related to the giganotosaurus , found in south america .
something	thing	NN	something	thing	3	5	if there is something immensely american about eagles at florida landfills , it 's the appeal of fast food in abundance .	there is one very american thing about eagles at florida landfills : they like the all-you-can-eat fast food .
hunter	hunting	NN	hunter	hunting	9	8	as numbers rose , their behavior shifted from rodent hunter to refuse specialist .	as numbers rose , their behavior shifted from hunting rats and mice to eating garbage .
cunning	smart	JJ	cunning	smart	7	6	but the birds are nothing if not cunning , vandeventer said .	but the birds are definitely street smart , vandeventer said .
discover	spot	VB	discover	spot	5	5	venter says the technology will discover and decode dna the basic building blocks of life hiding in soil or water samples collected on other planets .	venter says his technology will spot dna hiding in soil or water samples collected on other planets .
spot	discover	VB	spot	discover	5	5	venter says his technology will spot dna hiding in soil or water samples collected on other planets .	venter claims his technology will discover dna in soil or water found on other planets .
concept	notion	NN	concept	notion	8	8	it may sound outrageous , but venter 's concept of biological teleportation has captured the attention of scientists at nasa 's ames research center in silicon valley .	it may sound outrageous , but venter 's notion of biological teleportation has captured the attention of scientists at nasa 's ames research center in silicon valley .
suggest	believe	VBP	suggest	believe	6	1	data from the kepler space telescope suggest that every fifth star in our galaxy has a planet that might hold liquid water a key ingredient for life .	scientists believe that every fifth star in our galaxy has a planet that might hold liquid water a key ingredient for life .
deliver	make	VB	deliver	make	11	1	but making this happen took a special 3-d printing technology to deliver strength and speed at a low weight .	to make such a car , he needed special 3-d printing technology .
usually	traditionally	RB	usually	traditionally	0	0	usually it takes years of altering designs and materials and developing the tools needed to create the model of a car .	traditionally , it takes years to make a model of a new car .
make	create	VB	make	create	6	5	traditionally , it takes years to make a model of a new car .	it usually takes years to create a model for a new car .
traditionally	usually	RB	traditionally	usually	0	1	traditionally , it takes years to make a model of a new car .	it usually takes years to create a model for a new car .
convert	turn	VB	convert	turn	8	8	but kor first needs $ 3 million to convert drawings into reality .	but kor first needs $ 3 million to turn drawings into reality .
convert	make	VB	convert	make	8	8	but kor first needs $ 3 million to convert drawings into reality .	but kor first needs $ 3 million to make the drawings real .
turn	make	VB	turn	make	8	8	but kor first needs $ 3 million to turn drawings into reality .	but kor first needs $ 3 million to make the drawings real .
chain	line	NN	chain	line	12	4	the crash threw passengers from the toppling cars and left a snaking chain of twisted wreckage just inches from the water .	the crash left a line of twisted wreckage just inches from the water .
seriously	badly	RB	seriously	badly	13	9	eleven of the injured were believed to be critically injured and another six seriously hurt , according to the fire department .	eleven of the injured were believed to be very badly hurt , according to the fire department .
debris	wreckage	NN	debris	wreckage	4	4	there was smoke and debris everywhere , he said .	there was smoke and wreckage everywhere , he said .
rail	train	NN	rail	train	11	13	angel gonzalez was in bed in his high-rise apartment overlooking the rail curve when he heard the roar .	angel gonzalez was in bed in his high-rise apartment that looks over the train tracks when he heard the roar .
deceased	dead	JJ	deceased	dead	18	11	even in obituaries , family members feel compelled to include the '' nonsmoker '' status , lest the deceased be unfairly judged .	even in death announcements , family members sometimes say that the dead person was a nonsmoker .
disparity	difference	NN	disparity	difference	5	3	however , nowhere is the disparity felt more acutely than in funding research .	nowhere is the difference felt more powerfully than in funding research .
appropriate	right	JJ	appropriate	right	6	7	there 's even dispute over the appropriate color , according to andrea ferris , president and chair of the lungevity foundation , who says it 's blue .	people are n't even sure what the right color is , says andrea ferris , president of the lungevity foundation .
fast-food	food	NN	fast-food	food	11	12	an '' almost vegetarian '' who has n't rolled through a fast-food window since age 13 .	she is an '' almost vegetarian '' who has n't eaten fast food since age 13 .
food	fast-food	NN	food	fast-food	12	11	she is an '' almost vegetarian '' who has n't eaten fast food since age 13 .	an '' almost vegetarian '' who has n't rolled through a fast-food window since age 13 .
expertise	knowledge	NN	expertise	knowledge	11	4	the real purpose , aerospace experts believe , is to gain expertise to eventually put a man on the moon .	china would use the knowledge to eventually put a man on the moon , experts say .
man	person	NN	man	person	16	12	the real purpose , aerospace experts believe , is to gain expertise to eventually put a man on the moon .	at some point , china can use its knowledge to put a person on the moon .
route	way	NN	route	way	16	10	the launch comes as india , china 's asian economic rival , has a spacecraft en route to mars .	the launch comes as india has a spacecraft on the way to mars .
decline	drop	NN	decline	drop	1	11	the decline in fitness seems to be leveling off in europe , australia and new zealand , and perhaps in the last few years in north america .	for children living in europe , australia and new zealand the drop in fitness levels does not appear to be getting worse .
play	part	NN	play	part	18	7	too much time watching television and playing video games and unsafe neighborhoods with not enough options for outdoor play also may play a role , they said .	television and video games may also be part of the problem , they said .
transform	change	VB	transform	change	11	10	amazon 's plan is yet another example of how drones could transform everyday life .	amazon 's plan is another example of how drones could change everyday life .
monitor	track	NN	monitor	track	13	12	manufacturers tout the machines ' ability to carry water to a wildfire , monitor storm systems , locate missing persons or even deliver pizza .	drone makers say the machines could carry water to a wildfire and track storms .
generate	create	VB	generate	create	10	11	it estimates that integrating drones into the national airspace will generate at least 70,000 engineering , manufacturing and piloting jobs within the first three years of faa approval .	it estimates that if the faa approves drones , it will create at least 70,000 jobs within three years .
create	bring	VB	create	bring	11	11	it estimates that if the faa approves drones , it will create at least 70,000 jobs within three years .	it figures that if the faa approves drones , it will bring at least 70,000 new jobs .
timber	wood	NN	timber	wood	2	2	the original timber structure appears to have been built around an open space that likely held a tree , the authors wrote .	the original wood structure appears to have been built around an open space .
delivery	birth	NN	delivery	birth	3	16	immediately after his delivery , buddha is said to have stood and walked as his mother , queen maya devi , held a tree branch for support .	his mother , queen maya devi , held a tree branch for support as she gave birth .
shrine	temple	NN	shrine	temple	3	3	the first lumbini shrine was likely built by wealthy adherents of buddhism at a time when the religion was considered a cult .	the original lumbini temple was probably built by rich followers of buddhism .
early	old	JJ	early	old	7	7	researchers used fragments of charcoal from the early wooden temple and grains of sand to date the structure .	the team used science to test how old the building is .
still	even	RB	still	even	0	14	still , scientists and agribusiness increasingly plan for ways to reap a harvest if rain is less dependable and temperature norms shift .	they are trying to figure out ways for farmers to get a good harvest even if rain is less dependable and temperatures shift .
temperature	weather	NN	temperature	weather	19	12	still , scientists and agribusiness increasingly plan for ways to reap a harvest if rain is less dependable and temperature norms shift .	they are trying to figure out what farmers can do if the weather gets hotter and there is less rain .
fluctuation	change	NN	fluctuation	change	8	8	a usda report this year warned of increasing fluctuation in weather patterns and the effect on crops .	a usda report this year warned of increasing change in weather patterns and the effect on crops .
stress	emphasize	VBP	stress	emphasize	3	3	rice and others stress the need for better ways to adapt , whether that might be better weather forecasting , new plant-breeding techniques or soil management .	rice and others emphasize the need for better ways to adapt .
properly	correctly	RB	properly	correctly	17	9	in a nutshell , trainers like lay want to know whether these kids really know how to properly and safely move .	trainers , like lay , want kids to move correctly and safely .
know	learn	VB	know	learn	9	5	in a nutshell , trainers like lay want to know whether these kids really know how to properly and safely move .	but trainers want kids to learn how to move correctly and safely .
significant	large	JJ	significant	large	6	6	he said he 's seen a significant decline in movement skills in kids over the past decade .	he said he 's seen a large decline in movement skills in kids .
sedentary	inactive	JJ	sedentary	inactive	16	16	part of it is due to a decline in physical education in schools and a more sedentary lifestyle .	part of it is due to a decline in physical education in schools and a more inactive lifestyle .
conditioning	fitness	NN	conditioning	fitness	9	7	nationwide , though , few kids are getting formal conditioning training .	nationwide , few kids are getting regular fitness training .
formal	regular	JJ	formal	regular	8	6	nationwide , though , few kids are getting formal conditioning training .	nationwide , few kids are getting regular fitness training .
provide	offer	VBP	provide	offer	3	2	very few schools provide daily gym classes .	few schools offer gym class every day .
sustained	ongoing	JJ	sustained	ongoing	10	10	biden said he came to beijing because complex relationships require sustained engagement at high levels .	biden said he came to beijing because complex relationships require ongoing interactions at high levels .
high	top	JJ	high	top	13	13	biden said he came to beijing because complex relationships require sustained engagement at high levels .	biden said he came to beijing because involved relationships require continuing contact between top officials .
high	tall	JJ	high	tall	20	7	evans launched her 5-foot-10 , 175-pound body to the top of a stack that was 4 feet , 3 inches high .	evans is 5 feet , 10 inches tall and weighs 175 pounds .
dry-land	dry	JJ	dry-land	dry	19	11	she went , got the highest score -lrb- 794 of 800 -rrb- , then stunned everyone by winning the dry-land push trials .	she stunned everyone by being the best at pushing bobsleds on dry land .
highest	best	JJS	highest	best	5	6	she went , got the highest score -lrb- 794 of 800 -rrb- , then stunned everyone by winning the dry-land push trials .	she stunned everyone by being the best at pushing bobsleds on dry land .
correct	fix	VB	correct	fix	9	5	on wednesday , he made a broad appeal to correct inequalities that he said make it harder for a child to escape poverty .	he said he wants to fix the things that he says make it hard for a child to escape poverty .
expire	end	VB	expire	end	5	5	the benefits are set to expire just three days after christmas .	the checks are set to end just three days after christmas .
prior	past	JJ	prior	past	14	11	if the federal minimum wage had increased since 1968 the way it did in prior decades , it would be $ 17 per hour today .	if wages had increased since 1968 the way they did in past decades , the lowest wage someone could take home would be $ 17 per hour today .
domestic	national	JJ	domestic	national	6	6	this kind of mass organizing around domestic economic issues has not been seen for a long time , perhaps since the great depression of the 1930s .	this kind of mass protest around national economic issues has not been seen for a long time .
make	allow	VBP	make	allow	6	5	better education and greater capital investment make american workers more productive , raising their earnings .	better education and better-funded companies allow american workers to be more productive , raising their earnings .
capital	money	NN	capital	money	4	9	better education and greater capital investment make american workers more productive , raising their earnings .	also , the companies they work for have more money available to buy better equipment .
inexpensive	cheap	JJ	inexpensive	cheap	7	7	most fast-food customers want a quick , inexpensive meal .	most fast-food customers want a quick , cheap meal .
raise	make	VB	raise	make	5	10	doubling mcdonalds ' wages would raise their total costs by 25 percent well above profit margins .	if it kept prices steady , the company would not make any profits on its sales .
take	enter	VB	take	enter	9	7	they could use ipad stations instead of cashiers to take orders , or install the new robotic burger flipper that makes up to 400 hamburgers an hour .	customers could use self-serve ipad stations to enter their orders .
consider	think	VBP	consider	think	2	2	those who consider such a trade-off worthwhile miss the economic role of minimum-wage jobs .	those who think such a trade-off is worthwhile miss the point of minimum-wage jobs .
higher	better	JJR	higher	better	22	19	for most workers , they are entry-level positions where they can gain experience that makes them more productive and helps them command higher pay in their next job .	starter jobs like these are where they can gain experience that makes them more productive and helps them get better pay in their next job .
case	example	NN	case	example	5	4	but american samoa offers a case study of would happen if the '' living wage '' lobby prevailed .	american samoa is an example of would happen if the supporters of the '' living wage '' movement prevail .
raise	improve	VB	raise	improve	10	15	it did not boost purchasing power , stimulate demand or raise living standards .	it did not boost purchasing power , increase the demand for goods and services or improve the way people live .
power	ability	NN	power	ability	5	6	it did not boost purchasing power , stimulate demand or raise living standards .	it did not boost people 's ability to buy more goods .
boost	increase	VB	boost	increase	3	3	it did not boost purchasing power , stimulate demand or raise living standards .	it did n't increase the demand for goods and services .
suspend	stop	VB	suspend	stop	7	7	the islands ' governor begged congress to suspend the wage hikes , pleading : '' our job market is being torched .	the islands ' governor begged congress to stop the wage hikes , pleading : '' our job market is being torched .
imprisonment	prison	NN	imprisonment	prison	10	11	he had been convicted of treason and sentenced to life imprisonment in 1964 for leading a campaign of sabotage against the government .	mandela had been convicted of treason and sentenced to life in prison in 1964 for leading a campaign of sabotage against the government .
icon	symbol	NN	icon	symbol	20	20	when mandela emerged from prison in 1990 , smiling and waving to the crowds , the image became an international icon of freedom .	when mandela emerged from prison in 1990 , smiling and waving to the crowds , the image became an international symbol of freedom .
leader	leadership	NN	leader	leadership	4	5	he first became a leader in the fight against apartheid in 1944 , when he helped form the african national congress -lrb- anc -rrb- youth league .	mandela first showed signs of leadership in 1944 , when he helped form the african national congress -lrb- anc -rrb- youth league .
underground	secret	JJ	underground	secret	9	7	a year later , police uncovered the anc 's underground headquarters on a farm near johannesburg and seized documents outlining plans for a guerrilla campaign .	a year later , police found a secret anc hideout .
passage	passing	NN	passage	passing	1	1	the passage of time , the growth of mass media , satellite television and the internet have changed things .	time passing , satellite television , and the internet have changed things .
longtime	old	JJ	longtime	old	8	8	he vowed to reach out to iran 's longtime enemies and addressed a desire to put aside revolutionary chants and end the nation 's isolation .	he promised to reach out to iran 's old enemies .
fervently	eagerly	RB	fervently	eagerly	2	2	some here fervently anticipate an end to trade restrictions .	some here eagerly anticipate an end to trade restrictions .
sector	part	NN	sector	part	1	1	one sector that has experienced a sort of boom in the sanctions era is real estate , since affordable housing is perpetually in short supply .	one part of the economy that has experienced a sort of boom in the sanctions era is real estate , since affordable housing is perpetually in short supply .
transitory	temporary	JJ	transitory	temporary	3	3	they see their transitory creations as bold individualist statements against a stultified status quo .	they see their temporary creations as bold individualist statements against a stagnant society .
relationship	tie	NN	relationship	tie	6	6	other researchers have found a similar relationship between poor attendance and low performance among rural kids , preschoolers and middle-class youth alike .	other researchers have found a similar tie between poor attendance and low school performance .
relationship	link	NN	relationship	link	6	5	other researchers have found a similar relationship between poor attendance and low performance among rural kids , preschoolers and middle-class youth alike .	other researchers have found a link between bad attendance and doing badly in school .
poor	bad	JJ	poor	bad	8	7	other researchers have found a similar relationship between poor attendance and low performance among rural kids , preschoolers and middle-class youth alike .	other researchers have found a link between bad attendance and doing badly in school .
tie	link	NN	tie	link	6	5	other researchers have found a similar tie between poor attendance and low school performance .	other researchers have found a link between bad attendance and doing badly in school .
high-school	high	JJ	high-school	high	9	10	according to balfanz , about 200 of them were high-school dropouts-in-the-making .	according to balfanz , about 200 of these students were high school dropouts in the making .
dropouts-in-the-making	making	NN	dropouts-in-the-making	making	10	15	according to balfanz , about 200 of them were high-school dropouts-in-the-making .	according to balfanz , about 200 of these students were high school dropouts in the making .
review	discuss	VB	review	discuss	19	18	every friday , a handful of teachers and city year staff members squeeze into student desks at denny to review such cases and devise a plan .	every friday , a handful of teachers and city year staffers squeeze into student desks at denny to discuss students who need more help .
nevertheless	still	RB	nevertheless	still	0	0	nevertheless , jonathan looked as though he might collapse when his english teacher urged him to read five pages a day .	still , jonathan looked as though he might collapse when his english teacher urged him to read five pages a day .
hazardous	dangerous	JJ	hazardous	dangerous	6	6	the tent is supposed to prevent hazardous material from escaping the hold if an accident occurs .	the tent is supposed to prevent dangerous chemicals from escaping the hold if an accident occurs .
tie	link	VB	tie	link	3	8	it tried to tie specific accounts and characters to islamic extremism and weapons dealers , the guardian reported .	the guardian said the spy group tried to link accounts and characters to islamic extremism and weapons selling .
specific	certain	JJ	specific	certain	4	11	it tried to tie specific accounts and characters to islamic extremism and weapons dealers , the guardian reported .	the guardian said they tried to link accounts and characters to certain targets .
real-world	real	JJ	real-world	real	9	11	intelligence on the fantasy world could eventually translate to real-world espionage success , one of the documents suggested .	intelligence on the make-believe world could eventually be used in the real world , one of the documents suggested .
stark	strong	JJ	stark	strong	5	5	the whigs see themselves in stark opposition to the two main political parties , which brought about the recent government shutdown .	the whigs see themselves in strong opposition to the two main political parties , which brought about the recent government shutdown .
stark	sharp	JJ	stark	sharp	5	5	the whigs see themselves in stark opposition to the two main political parties , which brought about the recent government shutdown .	the whigs see themselves in sharp opposition to the two main political parties , which brought about the recent government shutdown .
strong	sharp	JJ	strong	sharp	5	5	the whigs see themselves in strong opposition to the two main political parties , which brought about the recent government shutdown .	the whigs see themselves in sharp opposition to the two main political parties , which brought about the recent government shutdown .
president	presidency	NN	president	presidency	11	10	the american whig party was originally formed in 1833 to oppose president andrew jackson 's king-like presidency and a growing government .	its purpose was to oppose a growing government and the presidency of andrew jackson .
core	base	NN	core	base	8	8	many northern whigs went on to form the core of the republican party , while southern whigs turned to the democratic party .	many northern whigs went on to form the base of the republican party .
equally	also	RB	equally	also	4	5	other magnet-containing products are equally a problem , she said .	other products containing magnets are also a problem , she said .
emergency-room	emergency	NN	emergency-room	emergency	1	1	many emergency-room physicians do n't know how serious the problem can be .	some emergency room doctors do n't know how serious the problem can be .
emergency-room	room	NN	emergency-room	room	1	2	many emergency-room physicians do n't know how serious the problem can be .	some emergency room doctors do n't know how serious the problem can be .
mother	mom	NN	mother	mom	22	7	when barbara rivas took her daughter to the emergency room , a doctor ordered an x-ray , then sent christin and her mother home .	when christin swallowed the magnets , her mom took her to the hospital .
bulb	lightbulb	NN	bulb	lightbulb	9	7	since the revolutionary glow of edison 's first light bulb in 1879 , light has blasted darkness off the map with increasing ferocity .	darkness has been disappearing ever since the lightbulb was invented in 1879 .
never	ever	RB	never	ever	6	7	today , 99 percent of americans never routinely see a true dark sky .	today , 99 percent of americans rarely ever see a true dark sky .
solution	answer	NN	solution	answer	10	4	luckily , '' full cutoff '' lights provide a simple solution .	there is a simple answer : '' full cutoff '' lights .
school	academy	NN	school	academy	5	12	they pulled kelsey from public school and enrolled her online , through a charter school affiliated with the national education company k12 .	then they put her in an online school called the ohio virtual academy .
talk	tell	VB	talk	tell	7	7	krista hooten said her daughter did not talk about the extent to which she was bullied during sixth grade .	krista hooten said her daughter did not tell her just how much she was being bullied .
dance	dancing	NN	dance	dancing	13	17	lexie , 14 , started to give herself more time for her 20-hour-a-week dance commitment .	lexie , 14 , started so that she could have more time for her 20-hour-a-week commitment to dancing .
poorly	badly	RB	poorly	badly	6	5	washington the american public feels unusually poorly about the direction of the country and is increasingly fed up with washington gridlock .	washington americans are feeling really badly about how the country is doing .
direction	way	NN	direction	way	13	15	that helped create pessimism that found two-thirds seeing things going in the wrong direction , while 30 percent felt matters were heading in the right direction .	that helped create the pessimism that left two-thirds of people seeing things going the wrong way ; only 30 percent felt matters were heading in the right direction .
inertia	inaction	NN	inertia	inaction	11	11	the federal budget drama is the most obvious symbol of washington inertia .	the federal budget drama is the most obvious symbol of washington inaction .
pact	agreement	NN	pact	agreement	10	10	the latest poll was conducted after the administration announced a pact with iran that eases some punishments on that country .	the latest survey was done after the government announced an agreement with iran that eases some punishments on that country .
translate	mean	VB	translate	mean	9	9	voters have mixed views about how all this will translate in next year 's elections .	voters had mixed views about what all this will mean in next year 's elections .
extraordinary	amazing	JJ	extraordinary	amazing	20	20	the newsmagazine said the roman catholic church 's new leader has changed how people see the 2,000-year-old institution in an extraordinary way in a short time .	the newsmagazine said the roman catholic church 's new leader has changed how people see the 2,000-year-old institution in an amazing way in a short time .
worship	worshipping	NN	worship	worshipping	7	7	pope francis has denounced the world 's worship of money .	he has spoken against the world 's worshipping of money .
journal	magazine	NN	journal	magazine	15	15	paabo and his colleagues published a report on their findings this past week in the journal nature .	paabo and his partners published a report on their findings this past week in the magazine nature .
produce	make	VBP	produce	make	10	5	it was taken from cell mitochondria , tiny structures that produce energy for the cell .	they are tiny structures that make energy for the cell .
out	off	RP	out	off	17	10	at some point about 30,000 years ago , all other species of the homo genus were wiped out .	about 30,000 years ago , the other groups all died off .
never	n't	RB	never	not	22	8	it 's designed to give students the skills they 'll need , while speeding past the types of math they 'll likely never use in their jobs .	teachers spend less time on skills students wo n't use .
method	approach	NN	method	approach	23	24	verenice sandoval , 18 , a business major who aspires to open her own photography studio , said she appreciated the class 's method .	verenice sandoval , 18 , a business major who wants to open her own photography studio , said she appreciated the class 's practical approach to math .
course	class	NN	course	class	3	3	almy said the course allows students to complete their remedial math requirement in one semester , rather than two or three .	almy said the class allows students to complete their remedial math requirement in a much shorter time .
arithmetic	math	NN	arithmetic	math	20	22	some professors doubt it will be a cure-all , noting that many students come in with profound weaknesses in basic arithmetic and even reading .	but some professors doubt it will be a cure-all , pointing out that many students come in with enormous weaknesses in basic math and even reading .
math	arithmetic	NN	math	arithmetic	22	21	but some professors doubt it will be a cure-all , pointing out that many students come in with enormous weaknesses in basic math and even reading .	but some professors doubt it will do much good , pointing out that many students come to college knowing little basic arithmetic and have weak reading skills .
weak	little	JJ	weak	little	24	6	but some professors doubt it will do much good , pointing out that many students come to college knowing little basic arithmetic and have weak reading skills .	many students come to college with little math skills .
concussion-free	concussion	NN	concussion-free	concussion	10	9	for college athletes who get through their sport 's season concussion-free , new research suggests it may be too early to breathe a sigh of relief .	college athletes may get through the season without a concussion .
head	brain	NN	head	brain	11	11	football and ice hockey players who had no outward signs of head injury showed worrisome changes in brain structure and mental performance following the season .	football and ice hockey players may have shown no signs of brain injuries .
obvious	visible	JJ	obvious	visible	8	9	football and ice hockey players who had no obvious sign of head injuries showed worrisome changes in brain structure .	football and ice hockey players may have shown no visible signs of brain injuries .
off-season	season	NN	off-season	season	7	6	or , they may heal during the off-season .	players may heal after the sports season is over .
threshold	line	NN	threshold	line	9	5	mcallister said his initial goal was to find a threshold for hits that were safe and hits that caused concussions .	mcallister wants to find a line between hits that are safe , and hits that cause concussions .
offense	crime	NN	offense	crime	23	20	what the judge has done , buffone said , is slap the teen on the wrist for what is clearly a very serious offense .	what the judge has done , buffone said , is only give the child a time-out for a very serious crime .
trial	court	NN	trial	court	10	9	the psychologist hired by couch 's family said at the trial that the boy grew up in a house where the parents argued a lot .	the psychologist hired by ethan 's family said in court that his parents argued a lot .
sentence	punishment	NN	sentence	punishment	25	12	scott brown , couch 's lead defense attorney , said the teenager could have been freed after two years if he had drawn the 20-year sentence .	scott brown , ethan 's main lawyer , said the ethan 's punishment was not light .
commit	make	VBP	commit	make	10	10	but , they will be issued only to companies that commit '' to ensure the preservation of eagles , '' the interior department said .	and , they will be given only to companies that make sure eagles are preserved .
beneficial	good	JJ	beneficial	good	8	8	interior secretary sally jewell described the changes as beneficial to wildlife and renewable energy efforts .	interior secretary sally jewell said the changes are good for both wildlife and renewable energy .
quagmire	mess	NN	quagmire	mess	12	12	the weekend 's blizzard was but a preview , with the muddy quagmire that is the aftermath certain to be seen again .	the weekend 's blizzard was but a preview , and the muddy mess that it left behind is certain to be seen again .
wary	cautious	JJ	wary	cautious	3	5	lebanese officials are wary of any settlements that might turn into permanent communities .	now , lebanese officials are cautious of any settlements that might turn into permanent communities .
fantasy	dream	NN	fantasy	dream	26	18	still , residents complain that delivery of aid comes randomly , enrolling children in schools is next to impossible , and finding a job is a fantasy .	also , enrolling children in schools is next to impossible , and finding a job is only a dream .
dire	terrible	JJ	dire	terrible	3	3	the situation is dire .	the situation is terrible .
prospects	chances	NNS	prospects	chance	6	6	many ask foreign visitors about the prospects for peace .	many ask foreign visitors about the chances for peace .
part	element	NN	part	element	13	17	curiosity has not yet found any organic carbon , which is a vital part of supporting life on earth .	curiosity has not yet found any carbon from plants or animals , which is the most important element for all life on earth .
far	much	RB	far	much	21	13	but scientists feared that the planet 's surface had been exposed to cosmic radiation high-energy particles that travel through space for far too long .	the curiosity team feared that the surface of mars had been damaged too much over the years .
shift	movement	NN	shift	movement	1	3	that shift , in turn , might be slowing down or even stalling tropical systems , before they can re-curve east and out to sea , scientists say .	scientists think the movement to the south might be slowing down or even stalling tropical systems before they can head east and out to sea .
movement	shift	NN	movement	shift	3	3	scientists think the movement to the south might be slowing down or even stalling tropical systems before they can head east and out to sea .	scientists think the shift to the south might be slowing down or even stalling tropical systems before they can re-curve east and out to sea .
trigger	cause	VB	trigger	cause	7	9	he said the arctic heat release might trigger other extreme weather such as flooding or severe snowstorms .	he said the arctic heat release also might help cause other serious and sometimes dangerous weather , such as flooding or severe snowstorms .
unusual	odd	JJ	unusual	odd	4	10	bond said that the unusual path sandy took last year was definitely due to changes happening in weather circulation worldwide .	bond said that sandy moved through the sky in an odd way .
circulation	movement	NN	circulation	movement	18	6	bond said that the unusual path sandy took last year was definitely due to changes happening in weather circulation worldwide .	he said that sandy 's odd movement was definitely due to changes happening in weather patterns across the world .
northeast	east	JJ	northeast	east	8	5	it then swamped much of the mid-atlantic and northeast with a powerful storm surge , even though it had been downgraded to a post-tropical system just before landfall .	but when sandy hit the east coast it did n't feel like a post-tropical system .
air	plane	NN	air	plane	8	4	the instruments measure temperature , wind direction and air pressure .	different instruments on the plane allowed scientists to measure temperature , wind direction and pressure .
typical	usual	JJ	typical	usual	18	7	wisconsin dairy industry leaders have depicted the practices shown in the video as shocking , cruel and not typical of the industry .	they also say the treatment is not usual .
stimulate	spur	VB	stimulate	spur	12	12	instead , he pokes the cow with an old ink pen to stimulate it into moving .	instead , he pokes the cow with an old ink pen to spur it into moving .
tolerate	allow	VB	tolerate	allow	6	6	a well-run dairy farm would never tolerate such things , grandin said in an interview .	a well-run dairy farm would never allow such things , grandin said .
eurozone	euro	NN	eurozone	euro	10	14	several countries , including canada and britain , and the eurozone have replaced small-denomination paper currency with coins .	several countries , including canada and britain , and the countries that use the euro , have replaced small-value paper currency with coins .
currency	money	NN	currency	money	15	12	several countries , including canada and britain , and the eurozone have replaced small-denomination paper currency with coins .	canada and britain and much of europe have replaced small value paper money with with coins .
small-denomination	small	JJ	small-denomination	small	13	9	several countries , including canada and britain , and the eurozone have replaced small-denomination paper currency with coins .	canada and britain and much of europe have replaced small value paper money with with coins .
small-value	small	JJ	small-value	small	18	9	several countries , including canada and britain , and the countries that use the euro , have replaced small-value paper currency with coins .	canada and britain and much of europe have replaced small value paper money with with coins .
produce	make	VB	produce	make	19	8	although a $ 1 coin has a useful life of 30 years , it also costs much more to produce .	but , it also costs much more to make .
hyperactive	overactive	JJ	hyperactive	overactive	3	3	the child becomes hyperactive , gets into fights , has attention deficits and can not be calm , taylor said .	the child becomes overactive and may get into fights .
countless	many	JJ	countless	many	9	4	taylor and others extrapolate that poor neighborhoods likely hold countless families suffering from compromised brain development , generation after generation .	in poor neighborhoods , many children suffer from harsh parenting , taylor said .
incapable	unable	JJ	incapable	unable	10	10	a poor mother distracted by lack of food can become incapable of connecting with her children .	a poor mother distracted by lack of food can be unable to connect with her children .
incapable	able	JJ	incapable	able	10	11	a poor mother distracted by lack of food can become incapable of connecting with her children .	a poor mother distracted by lack of food may not be able to connect with her children .
unable	able	JJ	unable	able	10	11	a poor mother distracted by lack of food can be unable to connect with her children .	a poor mother distracted by lack of food may not be able to connect with her children .
create	cause	VBP	create	cause	7	6	they 're made to recognize that they create toxic stress in their children because they themselves were victims of it .	witherspoon helps parents understand how they cause toxic stress in their children .
empathy	caring	NN	empathy	caring	4	2	parents need advocacy , empathy and support to stop taking their stresses out on their kids , witherspoon said .	parents need caring and support , said witherspoon .
central	middle	JJ	central	middle	13	10	marshall and her partners note that the ancient village of quanhucun , in central china , is far beyond felis silvestris lybica 's natural range .	marshall and her partners say that is far beyond the middle eastern wildcat 's natural travel range .
clarify	clear	VB	clarify	clear	9	9	marshall and her colleagues hope upcoming dna analysis will clarify matters .	marshall and her partners hope upcoming dna tests will clear up matters .
bond	link	NN	bond	link	6	6	the oldest evidence of a special bond between the two species dates back 9,500 years to the island of cyprus .	the oldest evidence of a special link between cats and humans dates back 9,500 years to the island of cyprus .
proximity	closeness	NN	proximity	closeness	1	1	the proximity of the two skeletons suggests the cat might have been tamed , experts say .	the closeness of the two skeletons suggests the cat might have been tamed , experts say .
utility	usefulness	NN	utility	usefulness	13	14	washington a decade of counterinsurgency and counterterror operations has created doubts about the utility of the aircraft carrier .	washington a decade of operations against terrorists and rebels has created doubts about the usefulness of the aircraft carrier .
ford-class	ford	NN	ford-class	ford	1	1	the ford-class has important advances that will allow it to be a powerful ship over the course of the century it is expected to remain in service .	the ford has important advances .
operate	use	VBP	operate	use	8	8	as of 2012 , about a dozen nations operate carriers of one form or another .	as of 2012 , about a dozen nations use carriers .
use	operate	VBP	use	operate	8	4	as of 2012 , about a dozen nations use carriers .	about a dozen nations operate carriers .
supremacy	dominance	NN	supremacy	dominance	20	18	as states like china modernize their navies and acquire more advanced capabilities , they implicitly threaten america 's long-standing maritime supremacy .	as states like china modernize their navies and acquire more advanced capabilities , they threaten america 's long-standing dominance in the ocean .
maritime	ocean	NN	maritime	ocean	19	21	as states like china modernize their navies and acquire more advanced capabilities , they implicitly threaten america 's long-standing maritime supremacy .	as states like china modernize their navies and acquire more advanced capabilities , they threaten america 's long-standing dominance in the ocean .
vexing	frustrating	JJ	vexing	frustrating	8	8	this '' away game '' dilemma is especially vexing because of the growing role that smaller and less survivable ships are playing in america 's navy .	this '' away game '' issue is especially frustrating because of the growing role that smaller ships are playing in america 's navy .
avoid	prevent	VB	avoid	prevent	10	9	some leaders in congress want a long-term spending deal to avoid the cuts to the pentagon .	some leaders in congress want a deal that would prevent cuts in pentagon spending .
prevent	avoid	VB	prevent	avoid	9	9	some leaders in congress want a deal that would prevent cuts in pentagon spending .	some leaders in congress want a big deal to avoid the cuts in military spending .
point	say	VBP	point	say	1	1	experts point to agriculture as the most promising commercial market for drones .	experts say agriculture will be the most promising commercial use for drones .
increase	improve	VB	increase	improve	2	3	it can increase the health of crops , improve field management practices , reduce costs and increase the amount of crops that can be harvested .	drones can also improve the way farmers use their fields .
increase	grow	VB	increase	grow	2	13	it can increase the health of crops , improve field management practices , reduce costs and increase the amount of crops that can be harvested .	this will reduce costs and increase the amount of crops a farmer can grow .
operate	use	VB	operate	use	20	3	the faa does allow public agencies including law enforcement and other governmental agencies to get a certificate of authorization to operate unmanned aircraft in civil airspace .	the government can use drones in the united states .
propose	suggest	VB	propose	suggest	7	6	next year , the agency plans to propose a rule for small unmanned aircraft , but it declined to discuss the rule .	next year , the agency will suggest a rule for drones .
uav	drone	NN	uav	drone	3	3	blair said the uav gives him a complete , aerial view of his crops .	blair said his drone gives him a complete view of his crops .
drone	uav	NN	drone	uav	3	3	blair said his drone gives him a complete view of his crops .	blair said his uav gives him a complete view of his crops .
monitor	check	VB	monitor	check	12	7	university of oregon researchers flew drones this summer over potato fields to monitor for disease .	oregon researchers flew drones this summer to check potato plants for disease .
look	check	VB	look	check	12	7	university of oregon researchers flew drones this summer over potato fields to look for disease .	oregon researchers flew drones this summer to check potato plants for disease .
long-established	long	JJ	long-established	long	9	12	he pointed out that neighborhoods reporting human-bear conflicts are long-established residential communities and not new developments .	he said that neighborhoods reporting problems with bears have been around a long time .
catch	get	VB	catch	get	21	4	in the wake of the attack , the agency plans to hire more wildlife contractors to trap and relocate bears or catch and kill them .	the agency plans to get more workers to trap bears .
recent	last	JJ	recent	last	3	1	in the most recent incident , she fought to shut her door as the bear tried to get inside her home .	the last time , she fought to shut her door as the bear tried to get inside her home .
eventually	finally	RB	eventually	finally	13	1	after she closed the door , the bear started pounding on windows but eventually walked away .	it finally walked away , leaving paw prints on the windows .
build	create	VB	build	create	6	6	but many other schools struggle to build ties with parents of students .	but many other schools struggle to create ties with the parents of their students .
professor	teacher	NN	professor	teacher	4	4	soo hong is a professor at wellesley college .	soo hong is a teacher at wellesley college .
cooperatively	together	RB	cooperatively	together	6	6	the neighborhood association strives to work cooperatively with principals , knowing the program wo n't work unless they support it .	the neighborhood association strives to work together with principals , knowing the program will not work unless they support it .
offer	give	VB	offer	give	9	2	but many soon saw how much help parents could offer giving more time and encouragement to students than teachers could do on their own .	they could give more time and encouragement to students than teachers could do on their own .
effective	successful	JJ	effective	successful	24	14	yet scholars continue to dig into different models , and some hypothesize that programs like logan square 's will prove to be the most effective .	experts who study education believe programs like logan square 's will prove to be successful .
task	work	NN	task	work	12	10	meanwhile , rodriguez patiently worked to keep the four focused on the task : a sentence about a grandma , her grandson and a teddy bear .	rodriguez patiently worked to keep the four focused on their work : a sentence about a grandma , her grandson and a teddy bear .
team	computer	NN	team	computer	1	11	a team from new york university has designed a flying jellyfish-like robot that uses four flapping wings to stay aloft .	these robots use four flapping wings that are controlled by a computer or a machine to stay in the air .
use	rely	VB	use	rely	8	8	those working on the smallest robots tend to use more insect-like designs , given that the bugs have already mastered flight mechanisms on a tiny scale .	those working on the smallest robots tend to rely more on insect-like designs .
innovative	new	JJ	innovative	new	5	5	others are trying to find innovative ways beyond job fairs to connect with veterans .	others are trying to find new ways beyond job fairs to connect with veterans .
phone	telephone	NN	phone	telephone	13	10	it is a program seeking to place 5,000 vets in jobs in mobile phone businesses by 2015 .	it wants to place 5,000 vets in jobs in wireless telephone businesses by 2015 .
war-era	war	NN	war-era	war	13	15	at job fairs , the commissioner said , he is seeing many vietnam war-era vets , in the 50 - to 60-year-age range , seeking work .	at job fairs , the commissioner said he is seeing many vets from the vietnam war looking for work .
allow	help	VB	allow	help	3	3	it could also allow them to survive when they fly at high altitudes , where oxygen is scarce .	it could also help them when they fly at high altitudes .
breath-hold	breath	NN	breath-hold	breath	20	18	so she worked out that this type of breathing could be important for mixing gases in the lungs during a breath-hold .	so she worked out that this breathing could be important for mixing gases in the lungs while the breath is held .
show	prove	VB	show	prove	6	6	she believes that further studies will show that all lizards and snakes are also unidirectional breathers .	she believes that further studies will prove that all lizards and snakes are also unidirectional breathers .
planet	earth	NN	planet	earth	11	13	but it is possible there have been unidirectional breathers on the planet for 270 million years .	but it is possible there have been animals that breathe like this on earth for 270 million years .
issue	grant	VB	issue	grant	5	5	state officials are poised to issue licenses to grow , process and sell what once was contraband .	state officials are about to grant licenses to grow , process and sell what once was against the law .
grant	give	VB	grant	give	5	5	state officials are about to grant licenses to grow , process and sell what once was against the law .	state officials are about to give people permission to grow and sell what once was against the law .
alcohol	drinking	NN	alcohol	drinking	12	11	but the yakama have battled for years with problems with drugs and alcohol on their reservation .	for years , they have battled with problems that come from drinking and doing drugs on their reservation .
liquor	alcohol	NN	liquor	alcohol	18	23	which is why george colby stepped up to the microphone during a loud autumn meeting of the state liquor control board .	that 's why george colby stepped up to the microphone during a loud autumn meeting with the state board that enforces laws about alcohol and drugs .
hard	strong	JJ	hard	strong	9	9	the tribe is ruled by a 158-year-old treaty prohibiting hard alcohol within its boundaries , and it runs one of the few dry casinos in america .	the tribe is ruled by a 158-year-old treaty prohibiting strong alcohol within its boundaries .
agreement	treaty	NN	agreement	treaty	2	2	under the agreement , the yakama reservation consists of just over a million acres ; the tribe gave up more than 12 million acres to the federal government .	under the treaty , the yakama reservation consists of just over a million acres ; the tribe gave up more than 12 million acres to the federal government .
illicit	illegal	JJ	illicit	illegal	1	1	while illicit border crossings in this southern arizona corridor have plummeted , deaths are at an all-time high .	while illegal border crossings in this southern arizona corridor have plummeted , deaths are at an all-time high .
illicit	unlawful	JJ	illicit	unlawful	1	1	while illicit border crossings in this southern arizona corridor have plummeted , deaths are at an all-time high .	while unlawful border crossings in this southern arizona corridor have fallen dramatically , deaths are at an all-time high .
illegal	unlawful	JJ	illegal	unlawful	1	1	while illegal border crossings in this southern arizona corridor have plummeted , deaths are at an all-time high .	while unlawful border crossings in this southern arizona corridor have fallen dramatically , deaths are at an all-time high .
unlawful	illegal	JJ	unlawful	illegal	1	0	while unlawful border crossings in this southern arizona corridor have fallen dramatically , deaths are at an all-time high .	illegal border crossings in the area have fallen a lot .
run	go	VBP	run	go	3	2	the changes which run counter to how school has functioned for generations have triggered fears from parents who worry their kids would simply slack off .	the changes go against how schools have worked for generations .
squad	team	NN	squad	team	2	2	rodman 's squad features ex-all stars kenny anderson , cliff robinson and vin baker .	rodman 's team features ex-all stars kenny anderson , cliff robinson and vin baker .
execution	killing	NN	execution	killing	17	2	although that has generated speculation abroad about the regime 's unity , north korean officials say the execution settled the issue and there is no instability .	the political killing has made people in other countries wonder about the north korean government 's unity .
execution	death	NN	execution	death	17	6	although that has generated speculation abroad about the regime 's unity , north korean officials say the execution settled the issue and there is no instability .	but north korean officials say the death sentence settled the issue and there is no instability .
barrier	fence	NN	barrier	fence	3	3	milwaukee the electric barrier on the chicago sanitary and ship canal is the last line of defense to stop an asian carp invasion of lake michigan .	milwaukee the electric fence on the chicago shipping canal is the last thing stopping a type of dangerous fish from getting into lake michigan .
ship	shipping	NN	ship	shipping	9	7	milwaukee the electric barrier on the chicago sanitary and ship canal is the last line of defense to stop an asian carp invasion of lake michigan .	milwaukee the electric fence on the chicago shipping canal is the last thing stopping a type of dangerous fish from getting into lake michigan .
yet	however	RB	yet	however	10	9	federal officials stress they do not believe asian carp are yet probing the barrier .	they were n't believed to be asian carp , however .
believe	think	VB	believe	think	6	4	federal officials stress they do not believe asian carp are yet probing the barrier .	government officials do n't think carp are getting past the fence .
prompt	lead	VB	prompt	lead	4	4	the new study may prompt changes in the way barges are configured and how the barrier operates .	the new study may lead to changes in the use of barges .
storm-water	water	NN	storm-water	water	13	12	such a project would require significant upgrades in chicago 's sewage treatment and storm-water management .	but , such a project would need significant upgrades in chicago 's water system .
chief	major	JJ	chief	major	1	22	as chief nurse for the pershing county school district 's 600 students , pontius consulted the centers for disease control and prevention and the american academy of pediatrics .	she contacted the centers for disease control and prevention -lrb- cdc -rrb- , a government agency that works to stop outbreaks of major illnesses .
rapidly	quickly	RB	rapidly	quickly	10	3	the key : obtaining the bacteria or virus dna and rapidly copying it so there 's enough to identify what 's causing your illness .	wheeler 's team quickly copies the dna .
speedy	quick	JJ	speedy	quick	1	4	as speedy as the procedure is now , wheeler thinks the team can go even faster .	the process is pretty quick now .
affluent	well-off	JJ	affluent	well-off	3	3	among schools in affluent communities : la canada high school hosted 127 visits from recruiters between august and november .	among schools in well-off communities , la canada high school had 127 visits from recruiters between august and november .
negative	bad	JJ	negative	bad	11	8	that counselor had arranged visits and had encouraged recruiters to overcome negative images about low-income , heavily minority public schools .	the counselor had also encouraged recruiters to overcome bad views about low-income , heavily minority public schools .
aid	help	NN	aid	help	12	14	some concede that students ' ability to pay tuition without substantial financial aid also can sway their choices .	some say that students ' ability to pay for classes without a lot of help from the schools can sway their choices .
college	school	NN	college	school	11	13	recruiters say they seek talented minority and low-income students through large college fairs , citywide recruiting sessions , online outreach and videotaped presentations .	recruiters say they seek talented minority and low-income students through other means than school visits .
search	find	VBP	search	find	1	1	they search for them through large college fairs , citywide recruiting sessions , online outreach and videotaped presentations .	they find them through large college fairs , citywide recruiting sessions , online outreach and videotaped presentations .
reason	sense	NN	reason	sense	4	15	but now scientists have reason to believe that they , like modern humans , may have organized their living spaces according to tasks .	it was believed that they lived like slobs , throwing their stuff everywhere with no sense of order .
shelter	dwelling	NN	shelter	dwelling	6	9	ongoing excavation of a collapsed rock shelter that was used by neanderthals suggests that our extinct human relatives organized their living spaces according to tasks , researchers say .	there is reason to believe that they organized their dwelling based on tasks , just like modern humans do .
colorado-denver	colorado	NN	colorado-denver	colorado	8	9	julien riel-salvatore , a professor at university of colorado-denver , was one of the researchers who worked at the dig site in italy .	julien riel-salvatore is a professor at the university of colorado .
residence	home	NN	residence	home	16	13	riel-salvatore and his colleagues wrote that the cave was probably used at times as a permanent residence , and as a logistical base at other times .	it concluded that the cave was probably used at times as a permanent home .
preliminary	initial	JJ	preliminary	initial	11	11	researchers cautioned that their conclusions were made on a roughly 15-square-foot preliminary excavation , and that further work was necessary to confirm their observations .	researchers cautioned that their conclusions were made on a roughly 15-square-foot initial excavation .
excavation	dig	NN	excavation	dig	12	15	researchers cautioned that their conclusions were made on a roughly 15-square-foot preliminary excavation , and that further work was necessary to confirm their observations .	researchers warned people that their findings were made on a very small part of the dig site .
optimistic	hopeful	JJ	optimistic	hopeful	18	17	critics argue correctly that president obama 's national goal of one million plug-in vehicles by 2015 was overly optimistic and will not be accomplished .	critics are right that president obama 's goal of one million plug-in vehicles by 2015 was too hopeful .
subsidy	support	NN	subsidy	support	18	12	in the long run , the electric vehicle must win its place in the marketplace without any government subsidy .	in the long run , electric vehicles must be sold without government support .
help	support	NN	help	support	17	12	in the long run , the electric vehicle must win its place in the marketplace without government help .	in the long run , electric vehicles must be sold without government support .
indeed	even	RB	indeed	even	0	2	indeed , electric vehicles should someday be taxed to help pay for road maintenance and repairs just as owners of gasoline-powered vehicles now pay a tax on gasoline .	they should even be taxed to help pay for keeping roads in good shape .
gasoline	gas	NN	gasoline	gas	27	9	indeed , electric vehicles should someday be taxed to help pay for road maintenance and repairs just as owners of gasoline-powered vehicles now pay a tax on gasoline .	owners of gasoline-powered vehicles now pay a tax on gas .
all-electric	electric	JJ	all-electric	electric	10	8	according to the cbo , the lifetime cost of an all-electric car or hybrid plug-in car is $ 12,000 more than a traditional hybrid or conventional gas-powered vehicle .	it says that the lifetime cost of an electric car or plug-in hybrid car is $ 12,000 more than a gas vehicle or regular hybrid .
resolve	fix	VB	resolve	fix	7	7	but no amount of federal action can resolve other problems .	but no amount of government action can fix other flaws of electric cars .
electric-gas	electric	JJ	electric-gas	electric	0	10	electric-gas hybrid cars are a better alternative , but are more expensive and less spacious .	a hybrid is a car that runs on gas and electric batteries .
range	distance	NN	range	distance	0	1	range is a huge issue for families .	the distance a car can go on a charge is a huge issue for families .
attest	confirm	VB	attest	confirm	6	6	as anyone who has children can attest , kids have unscheduled band , choir , soccer , football , and dance practices .	as anyone who has children can confirm , kids have unscheduled band , choir , soccer , football , and dance practices .
confirm	say	VB	confirm	say	6	6	as anyone who has children can confirm , kids have unscheduled band , choir , soccer , football , and dance practices .	as anyone who has children will say , kids have unscheduled band , choir , soccer , football , and dance practices .
occasionally	sometimes	RB	occasionally	sometimes	1	1	they occasionally get sick and need to be taken home .	they sometimes get sick and need to be taken home .
conventional	traditional	JJ	conventional	traditional	20	20	a journal of industrial ecology report found that manufacturing electric vehicles produces over double the carbon dioxide emissions of building conventional automobiles .	a journal of industrial ecology report found that manufacturing electric vehicles produces over double the carbon dioxide emissions of building traditional gas-powered automobiles .
marginal	minimal	JJ	marginal	minimal	3	3	environmental benefits are marginal at best .	environmental benefits are minimal at best .
spaceflight	space	NN	spaceflight	space	14	19	research includes earth observation , the study of cosmic rays and the effect of spaceflight on astronaut health .	research includes earth observation , and the study of cosmic rays , which are energy particles that travel through space .
space-station	space	NN	space-station	space	8	5	former nasa astronaut leroy chiao served as a space-station commander in 2004 and 2005 .	he was commander of the space station in 2004 and 2005 .
space-station	station	NN	space-station	station	8	6	former nasa astronaut leroy chiao served as a space-station commander in 2004 and 2005 .	he was commander of the space station in 2004 and 2005 .
technology	tech	NN	technology	tech	23	12	the los angeles unified school district , the country 's second-largest school system , also has one of the nation 's most expensive technology programs .	the los angeles unified school district has one of the most expensive tech programs in the country .
lower	less	JJR	lower	less	15	15	los angeles ' $ 1 billion technology effort stands out in part because california has lower per-student funding than most states .	los angeles ' $ 1 billion technology effort stands out in part because california spends less per student than most states .
laptop-style	laptop	JJ	laptop-style	laptop	4	4	the chromebook is a laptop-style device with a larger screen and keyboard that can connect to thumb drives , printers , or cameras .	the chromebook is a laptop computer .
typically	often	RB	typically	often	5	7	instructors in perris and riverside typically use online curriculum and resources , much of it free .	teachers in perris and riverside in california often use online lessons and materials .
dip	drop	VB	dip	drop	8	2	they will have to endure temperatures that may dip as low as minus 292 degrees fahrenheit , or minus 180 degrees celsius .	temperatures can drop as low as minus 292 degrees fahrenheit , or minus 180 degrees celsius .
endure	withstand	VB	endure	withstand	5	6	the vehicles are supposed to endure two such long , cold nights during the course of the mission .	and the vehicles are supposed to withstand two such long , cold nights during the course of the mission .
endure	experience	VB	endure	experience	5	4	the vehicles are supposed to endure two such long , cold nights during the course of the mission .	and the vehicles will experience two such long , cold nights during the course of the mission .
discuss	talk	VBP	discuss	talk	1	1	articles discuss officers ' retirements , prisoners ' releases , and the court battle over reducing california 's prison population .	they talk about the court battle over reducing california 's prison population .
burglary	robbery	NN	burglary	robbery	12	14	garcia 's sentence is even longer - 65 years to life for burglary and skipping bail .	at 56 years old , haines is serving 55 years to life for bank robbery .
strive	aim	VBP	strive	aim	14	14	staff members have an obvious stake in the topics they cover , although they strive for objectivity .	staff members have an obvious stake in the topics they cover , although they aim for objectivity .
strive	try	VBP	strive	try	14	12	staff members have an obvious stake in the topics they cover , although they strive for objectivity .	staff members are invested in the topics they cover , although they try to be unbiased .
continue	keep	VBP	continue	keep	2	2	if states continue to grow at the same pace until the next census , texas could gain three more congressional seats in 2020 .	if states keep growing just as fast until the next census , texas could gain three more seats in congress .
gain	get	VB	gain	get	11	9	florida , north carolina , virginia and colorado would stand to gain one seat each .	florida , north carolina , virginia and colorado would get one seat each .
narrowly	barely	RB	narrowly	barely	2	4	new york narrowly maintained its third-place spot with 19,651,127 residents , compared with florida 's 19,552,860 as of july 1 .	new york only just barely kept its third-place spot .
surpass	overtake	VB	surpass	overtake	6	6	but the sunshine state will soon surpass new york because its population is growing about three times faster , according to the census estimates .	but the sunshine state will soon overtake new york .
lower	slower	JJR	lower	slower	8	5	but the yearly growth rate nationally is still lower than where it was in the mid-2000s .	but the population is growing slower nationally than it did in the mid-2000s .
make	bring	VB	make	bring	13	12	washington on wednesday the obama administration called on the nation 's schools to make an important change .	washington on wednesday the obama administration asked the nation 's schools to bring about an important change .
inappropriate	wrong	JJ	inappropriate	wrong	20	2	saying '' that educators are discriminating against kids across the country and law enforcement officers are discriminating as well is inappropriate , '' hinson said .	it 's wrong to say that schools '' are discriminating against kids , '' hinson said .
fear	worry	VBP	fear	worry	2	2	scientists also fear that creatures in the plastisphere break down chunks of polyethylene and polypropylene so completely that dangerous chemicals percolate into the environment .	scientists also worry about something else : creatures in the plastisphere are completely breaking down chunks of plastic .
persist	remain	VB	persist	remain	11	6	once trapped in these cyclonic dead zones , plastic particles may persist for centuries .	once trapped , plastic particles may remain for centuries .
minuscule	tiny	JJ	minuscule	tiny	4	5	the effects of the minuscule pieces that make up the plastisphere are only beginning to be understood .	but the effects of the tiny pieces that make up the plastisphere are only beginning to be understood .
ingest	swallow	VB	ingest	swallow	2	2	fish that ingest plastic debris tend to accumulate hazardous substances in their bodies and suffer from liver toxicity .	fish that swallow plastic debris tend to build up hazardous substances in their bodies that can cause damage to their livers .
public-health	public	JJ	public-health	public	14	13	but the sheer number of smokers is most important when it comes to the public-health impact , said ruth malone .	but the sheer number of smokers is most important when it comes to public health , said ruth malone .
fraction	percentage	NN	fraction	percentage	1	1	the fraction of americans who smoke has fallen by more than half , from 42 percent in 1964 to 18 percent in 2012 .	the percentage of americans who smoke has fallen by more than half , from 42 percent in 1964 to 18 percent in 2012 .
get	learn	VB	get	learn	16	4	job seekers needed to brush up on tech skills , search online for jobs , and get help with resumes .	job seekers needed to learn computer skills .
software	computer	NN	software	computer	5	2	they taught the basics of software like microsoft word and excel , and guided people toward the most useful information online .	they taught computer basics , and guided people toward the most useful information online .
direct	send	VB	direct	send	23	18	if you show up with a hardware problem your tablet wo n't turn on or a screen is cracked the librarians will likely direct you elsewhere .	if your ipad wo n't turn on because you dropped it in the bathtub , they will likely send you elsewhere .
e-waste	waste	NN	e-waste	waste	0	2	e-waste also , despite the work of kianipay and other entrepreneurial recyclers , is an environmental problem of global proportion .	but the waste also is a global pollution problem .
process	deal	VB	process	deal	18	18	if passed , it would prohibit the export of electronic junk containing toxins to nations that can not process them safely .	it would make it against the law to export electronic junk with poisons to nations that can not deal with them safely .
far	still	RB	far	still	1	0	so far , nearly half the states have passed laws , but environmentalists fear they are only losing ground because of the astonishing explosion of devices .	still , environmentalists fear they are only losing ground because of the astonishing explosion of devices .
indicate	show	VBP	indicate	show	13	13	in some ways , the shortage of providers is worse than the numbers indicate .	in some ways , the lack of providers is worse than the numbers show .
provide	give	VB	provide	give	17	17	similarly , patients can be fitted with electronic devices that remind them to take their medications and provide other guidance about their conditions .	similarly , patients can be fitted with electronic devices that remind them to take their medications and give them advice .
guidance	advice	NN	guidance	advice	19	19	similarly , patients can be fitted with electronic devices that remind them to take their medications and provide other guidance about their conditions .	similarly , patients can be fitted with electronic devices that remind them to take their medications and give them advice .
distinct	clear	JJ	distinct	clear	3	3	you will see distinct waves of motion emerge through the feathered masses as one penguin takes a step and the rest follow .	you will see clear waves of motion through the giant crowd .
step	move	NN	step	move	17	7	you will see distinct waves of motion emerge through the feathered masses as one penguin takes a step and the rest follow .	you will see clear waves of motion move through the crowd .
footage	video	NN	footage	video	13	3	to understand how these waves begin and behave , the scientists analyzed video footage gathered on penguin colonies near the french and german research bases on antarctica .	they shot the video at penguin colonies near the french and german research bases on antarctica .
initiate	start	VB	initiate	start	10	7	but unlike cars a traffic jam , any penguin can initiate movement , whether they 're in the front , to the back or to the side .	but unlike cars , any penguin can start the movement .
threshold	limit	NN	threshold	limit	2	2	the 2-centimeter threshold is no accident : that 's roughly twice the thickness of a penguin 's properly fluffed layer of insulating feathers .	the 2-centimeter limit is no accident .
large-scale	big	JJ	large-scale	big	11	11	and yet , these tiny movements can add up to a large-scale , complex order .	and yet , these tiny movements can add up to a big , complicated order .
merge	combine	VB	merge	combine	16	16	these rules allow the penguins to stay organized , to maximize heat conservation and even to merge two smaller penguin huddles together .	these rules allow the penguins to stay organized , to maximize heat conservation and even to combine two smaller penguin huddles together .
merge	combine	VBP	merge	combine	15	14	these rules allow the penguins to stay organized , to maximize heat conservation and even merge two smaller penguin huddles together .	these rules allow the penguins to stay organized , to stay warm and even combine two smaller penguin huddles together .
flush	wash	VB	flush	wash	9	7	people were told to use the water only to flush their toilets .	they were advised not to drink or wash with it .
yet	still	RB	yet	still	0	4	yet many businesses remained closed in neighborhoods further out of the city .	but many businesses were still closed in neighborhoods further out of the city .
spill	leak	NN	spill	leak	26	18	charleston attorney anthony majestro represents several businesses that lost money while shut down and said he has lost count of the numerous lawsuits filed over the spill .	anthony majestro is a lawyer who represents several businesses that lost money while shut down during the chemical leak .
use	take	VB	use	take	13	4	some people put plastic bags around faucets so they were reminded not to use the water .	others left town to take a shower and find an open restaurant .
leak	spillage	NN	leak	spillage	9	9	company president gary southern said friday night that the leak had been stopped , but otherwise company officials have declined to comment .	but officials from the company responsible for this chemical spillage have otherwise declined to comment .
classic	classical	JJ	classic	classical	9	9	china is investing heavily in new concert venues and classic music education .	china is investing heavily in new concert venues and classical music education .
violinist	violin	NN	violinist	violin	14	10	others are senior citizens like jack cobos , a retired carpet salesman and former violinist with the chattanooga symphony who 's turning 71 during this tour .	he 's a retired carpet salesman who used to play violin with another music group .
smoke	smoking	NN	smoke	smoking	17	12	at another venue , bryant said , he was stunned to find the room filled with cigarette smoke .	another time , bryant said he was was stunned to find people smoking .
opportunity	chance	NN	opportunity	chance	19	3	most of the performers , though , say they 're touring not so much for the money as the opportunity to see a bit of china .	they have the chance to see a bit of china .
solar-powered	solar	JJ	solar-powered	solar	3	13	using a special solar-powered tag , marine scientists now can study a shark 's movements for up to two years by way of data beamed to satellites .	scientists who study marine life are now using special tags that run on solar power .
solar	solar-powered	JJ	solar	solar-powered	0	0	solar powered or not , tags already have provided researchers with detailed information on the migratory patterns and daily habits of different fish .	solar-powered tags and battery-powered tags have each provided researchers with detailed information about fish .
pre-existing	previous	JJ	pre-existing	previous	10	10	nearly 20 percent of injured theme park visitors reported having pre-existing health problems such as asthma or high blood pressure .	nearly 20 percent of injured theme park visitors reported having previous health problems , like heart problems and asthma .
undetermined	unknown	JJ	undetermined	unknown	3	7	the third was undetermined , but the coroner found that the man had a heart condition and had suffered a brain hemorrhage .	the cause of the third death was unknown , but the man had a heart condition and had suffered a brain hemorrhage .
aid	care	NN	aid	care	14	7	the 59-year-old teacher said she was sweating and vomiting at the park 's first aid station , and was treated by paramedics who were called to the park .	eventually , she was treated by emergency care workers .
disneyland	disney	NN	disneyland	disney	0	0	disneyland officials say their attractions are safe and account for the most injuries primarily because of their popularity .	disney says its rides are safe .
generate	cause	VBP	generate	cause	9	9	the state 's injury reports suggest that older rides generate more injuries than newer ones .	the state 's injury reports suggest that older rides cause more injuries than newer ones .
study	education	NN	study	education	2	13	but a study published this week suggests that obesity has continued to rise in adolescents from poorer , less well-educated families .	obesity has continued to rise in young people from poorer families with less education .
prematurely	early	RB	prematurely	early	20	20	and , they are only one of many health gaps that make poor patients sicker and more likely to die prematurely than richer ones .	and , they are only one of many health gaps that make poor patients sicker and more likely to die early than richer ones .
make	get	VBP	make	get	11	2	and , they are only one of many health gaps that make poor patients sicker and more likely to die prematurely than richer ones .	poor people get sicker than richer ones .
influence	affect	VBP	influence	affect	9	2	genetics , metabolism , cultural and environmental factors all influence weight .	many things affect weight .
finally	eventually	RB	finally	eventually	7	0	eventually diagnosed with major depression , he finally agreed to participate in group therapy sessions at his school .	eventually he agreed to go to group therapy sessions at his school .
assess	identify	VB	assess	identify	8	10	he teaches clinicians in 49 states how to assess and treat patients with mental illness and substance abuse .	he teaches health care professionals around the country how to identify and treat mental illness and drug abuse .
robust	strong	JJ	robust	strong	4	4	baltimore and chicago have robust screening and treatment programs .	baltimore and chicago have strong screening and treatment programs .
mental	emotional	JJ	mental	emotional	6	8	the child was never screened for mental health or behavioral issues because screenings were n't offered at his school when he was there .	the child was never screened for social and emotional or behavioral problems because screenings were n't offered at his school .
climb	rise	VB	climb	rise	23	24	as part of the settlement , apple must pay full refunds to consumers for kids ' unauthorized purchases , so that figure could climb .	as part of the settlement , apple must pay full refunds to consumers for kids ' unauthorized purchases , so that payout figure could rise .
depend	rely	VBP	depend	rely	9	9	brown pelicans , sea lions and other predators that depend on the oily , energy-rich fish for food could be starving .	brown pelicans , sea lions and other predators that rely on the oily , energy-rich fish for food could be starving .
volatile	unpredictable	JJ	volatile	unpredictable	4	4	sardine populations are famously volatile , but the decline is the steepest since the collapse of the sardine fishery in the mid-20th century .	sardine populations are famously unpredictable , but for reasons that are unclear , the decline is the steepest since the collapse of the sardine fishery in the mid-1900s .
factor	reason	NN	factor	reason	1	1	one factor is a naturally occurring climate cycle known as the pacific decadal oscillation , which has brought cold , nutrient-rich water to the west coast .	one reason is a natural climate cycle known as the pacific decadal oscillation .
climate	weather	NN	climate	weather	6	1	one factor is a naturally occurring climate cycle known as the pacific decadal oscillation , which has brought cold , nutrient-rich water to the west coast .	the weather brings cold water with lots of nutrition in it to the west coast .
assessment	study	NN	assessment	study	1	1	an assessment last fall found the population had dropped 72 percent since its last peak in 2006 .	a study last fall found the population had dropped by almost three-fourths since its last peak in 2006 .
harvest	fishing	NN	harvest	fishing	7	6	in november , federal fishery managers slashed harvest limits by more than two-thirds , but some environmental groups have argued the catch should be halted outright .	federal fishery managers have cut down fishing limits by more than two-thirds .
arrest	stop	VB	arrest	stop	25	14	he is the california program director for the conservation group oceana , which contends that continuing to fish for them could speed their decline and arrest any recovery .	the group says that continuing to fish for them could speed their decline and stop them from coming back .
decline	dip	VBP	decline	dip	7	7	when conditions are poor , sardine populations decline , and when seas are favorable , they flourish in massive schools .	when conditions are poor , sardine populations dip , and when seas are better , they flourish in very large schools .
overwhelming	large	JJ	overwhelming	large	11	12	the following year their pups showed up on the coast in overwhelming numbers , stranded and emaciated .	the following year , their pups showed up on the coast in large numbers , stranded and underweight .
breed	mate	VBP	breed	mate	10	2	biologists also suspect the drop is hurting brown pelicans that breed on california 's northern channel islands .	the pelicans mate on california 's northern channel islands .
breed	mate	VB	breed	mate	11	11	they have shown signs of starving and have largely failed to breed or rear chicks there since 2010 .	they have shown signs of starving and have largely failed to mate or hatch chicks there since 2010 .
illustrate	show	VB	illustrate	show	6	6	a study published this week helps illustrate that link .	a study published this week helps show the link between hunger and health .
likely	probably	RB	likely	probably	4	8	the bill will also likely add some money for food banks and test new work requirements for recipients in a few states , a priority for many republicans .	and in a few test states it will probably also introduce new work requirements for those receiving benefits .
slope	hill	NN	slope	hill	23	10	johnson also illustrates the poems with simple watercolors , ranging from a sunlit iceberg to smokestacks and a swing set on a grassy slope .	another shows smokestacks and a swing set on a grassy hill .
medium	way	NN	medium	way	13	13	haiku , with its familiar 5-7-5 cadence , might seem like an odd medium for a scientist to embrace but johnson was already well acquainted with it .	haiku , with its familiar 5-7-5 rhythm , might seem like an odd way for a scientist to express himself .
format	form	NN	format	form	13	7	haiku , with its familiar 5-7-5 cadence , might seem like an odd format for a scientist to embrace but johnson was already well acquainted with it .	haiku is a traditional three-line japanese poetic form , which alternates 5 - and 7-syllable lines in a familiar 5-7-5 pattern .
way	form	NN	way	form	13	7	haiku , with its familiar 5-7-5 rhythm , might seem like an odd way for a scientist to express himself .	haiku is a traditional three-line japanese poetic form , which alternates 5 - and 7-syllable lines in a familiar 5-7-5 pattern .
brief	short	JJ	brief	short	21	10	for the past few years , he 's been composing facebook posts in haiku as a way to keep his messages brief and positive .	he sees this as a way to keep his messages short and positive .
use	usage	NN	use	usage	7	7	businesses have been ordered to cut water use by 35 percent .	businesses have been ordered to cut water usage by 35 percent .
usage	use	NN	usage	use	7	7	businesses have been ordered to cut water usage by 35 percent .	businesses have been ordered to cut water use by 35 percent .
big	bad	JJ	big	bad	11	8	it appears california may be headed for a replay of the big drought of the late 1980s through the early 1990s .	it appears california may be headed for a bad drought .
country	nation	NN	country	nation	5	7	it is one of the country 's major sources of winter lettuce and vegetables .	this region is where much of the nation 's winter lettuce and vegetables are grown .
regular	usual	JJ	regular	usual	17	4	one of the nation 's major sources of winter lettuce and vegetables , it will get its regular colorado river irrigation deliveries this year .	it will get the usual amount of water from the colorado river this year .
date	time	NN	date	time	11	11	storage in most major reservoirs is well below average for the date and dropping when it should be rising .	storage in most major reservoirs is well below average for the time of year .
turn	become	VB	turn	become	23	11	the district has asked customers to stop all outdoor watering and , if it remains dry , lorance said the request probably would turn into an order .	if it remains dry , lorance said , that will probably become an order .
wealthiest	richest	JJS	wealthiest	richest	2	2	the very wealthiest people on earth collected 95 percent of the post-crisis growth , the report said .	the very richest people on earth collected almost all of the wealth that was created after the crisis , the report said .
certain	sure	JJ	certain	sure	8	8	oxfam urged countries to take steps to make certain policies did n't make the situation worse .	oxfam urged countries to take steps to make sure policies did n't make the situation worse .
inequality	unfairness	NN	inequality	unfairness	6	6	when there is growth and less inequality , the report said , the rules of business work to help the middle classes and the poorest sections of society .	when there is growth and less unfairness , the report said , the rules of business work to help the middle classes and the poor .
unjustifiably	unfairly	RB	unjustifiably	unfairly	17	11	the 9th circuit said the case would have to be retried because an obviously gay juror was unjustifiably excluded from the jury .	in that case , the judges said the trial was conducted unfairly , because a gay man was excluded from the jury without a good reason .
exceedingly	extremely	RB	exceedingly	extremely	8	7	he said the decision would make it '' exceedingly difficult '' for states to justify discriminating against gays .	he said the decision will make it extremely difficult for states to treat gays unfairly .
jury	juror	NN	jury	juror	27	12	the abbott lawyer said he had '' no idea '' whether the man was gay , but did not give another reason for keeping him off the jury .	the abbott lawyer said he had '' no idea '' whether the juror was gay .
leadership	lead	NN	leadership	lead	9	9	and we simply have n't stepped up to a leadership position .	and we have n't stepped up to take the lead .
comprehensive	sweeping	JJ	comprehensive	sweeping	1	2	passing comprehensive national climate change legislation would be a good start .	passing a sweeping national climate change law would be a good start .
imperative	essential	JJ	imperative	essential	4	4	nonetheless , it is imperative that congress at least try to design and approve a national climate change policy and do so soon .	nonetheless , it is essential that congress at least try to design and approve a national climate change policy and it should do so soon .
approve	pass	VB	approve	pass	13	11	nonetheless , it is imperative that congress at least try to design and approve a national climate change policy and do so soon .	but , it is necessary that congress try to design and pass a national climate change law and do it soon .
imperative	necessary	JJ	imperative	necessary	4	4	nonetheless , it is imperative that congress at least try to design and approve a national climate change policy and do so soon .	but , it is necessary that congress try to design and pass a national climate change law and do it soon .
essential	necessary	JJ	essential	necessary	4	4	nonetheless , it is essential that congress at least try to design and approve a national climate change policy and it should do so soon .	but , it is necessary that congress try to design and pass a national climate change law and do it soon .
tough	hard	JJ	tough	hard	6	6	clearly , this will be a tough battle , but it is necessary to try .	clearly , this will be a hard battle .
much	many	JJ	much	many	15	2	today , even schoolchildren carry iphones , which are orders of magnitude more powerful and much cheaper .	today , many kids have iphones .
alone	single-handedly	RB	alone	single-handedly	12	9	the united states can do next to nothing about greenhouse gas emissions alone , and we should not burden our economy to attempt to do so .	the united states can do little about greenhouse gases single-handedly .
substantial	huge	JJ	substantial	huge	9	8	reducing greenhouse gas emissions is ultimately going to require substantial changes in our energy consumption .	cutting greenhouse gases is ultimately going to require huge changes in how much energy we use .
deliberation	discussion	NN	deliberation	discussion	12	12	that has n't happened yet and debating something this important requires more deliberation than we 've had yet .	that has n't happened yet and debating something this important requires more discussion than we 've had so far .
yet	far	RB	yet	far	4	18	that has n't happened yet and debating something this important requires more deliberation than we 've had yet .	that has n't happened yet and debating something this important requires more discussion than we 've had so far .
olympics	games	NNS	olympics	game	6	2	heiberg organized the 1994 lillehammer winter olympics , which stood out for the colorful atmosphere generated by passionate norwegian fans .	the lillehammer games stood out for the colorful atmosphere generated by passionate norwegian fans .
ornamental	decorative	JJ	ornamental	decorative	19	14	by the book , horticulture is the art and science of growing fruits , vegetables , flowers , and ornamental plants .	horticulture is the art and science of growing fruits , vegetables , flowers and decorative plants .
disco-era	disco	NN	disco-era	disco	6	9	and despite the 1970s clothing and disco-era glitter of the art and photographs , the exhibit feels fresh .	the exhibit may be full of 1970s clothing and disco glitter .
large	major	JJ	large	major	6	6	this is the museum 's first large special exhibit since it moved into its new home in 2011 , said museum director hank hine .	this is the museum 's first major exhibit since it moved into its new home in 2011 , said museum director hank hine .
diet	food	NN	diet	food	5	1	participants were designated '' western diet '' consumers if their consumption from non-fast-food sources was relatively high in saturated fats and added sugars .	the food they ate from non-fast-food sources was relatively high in saturated fats and added sugars .
produce	grow	VB	produce	grow	2	2	that can produce fresh , organic food anywhere with almost no effect on the environment , he explained .	farmers can grow fresh , natural food anywhere .
business	farm	NN	business	farm	12	10	morris estimates he 's sunk a total of $ 175,000 into the business .	morris says he has put about $ 175,000 into the farm .
furnace	stove	NN	furnace	stove	4	2	morris uses a wood furnace to heat the facility .	a wood stove heats the place .
persist	continue	VB	persist	continue	8	8	it 's not clear if the infection would persist without the bees picking up more of the virus from plants they visit .	it 's not clear if the infection would continue without the bees picking up more of the virus from plants they visit .
class	type	NN	class	type	6	6	activists have raised concern about a class of pesticides known as neonicotinoids , which have been banned in europe .	activists have raised concern about a type of pesticide known as neonicotinoids , which have been banned in europe .
type	class	NN	type	class	6	5	activists have raised concern about a type of pesticide known as neonicotinoids , which have been banned in europe .	one possible cause is a class of pesticides known as neonicotinoids , which have been banned in europe .
fishing	fish	NN	fishing	fish	5	3	it sailed alongside the local fishing boats but instead of grouper and swordfish , its catch was plastic bags , soda bottles and an old toilet seat .	but instead of fish , the green boat caught plastic bags , soda bottles and an old toilet seat .
limited	little	JJ	limited	little	2	2	there are limited trash and sewage services in this sprawling mega-city of 6 million people .	there 's little trash and sewage service in this sprawling mega-city of 6 million people .
refuse	garbage	NN	refuse	garbage	7	10	at low tide , mountains of household refuse , old sofas and even washing machines are seen .	at low tide , you can see mountains of household garbage , old sofas and even washing machines .
refuse	trash	NN	refuse	trash	7	10	at low tide , mountains of household refuse , old sofas and even washing machines are seen .	at low tide , you can see mountains of household trash , old sofas and even washing machines .
garbage	trash	NN	garbage	trash	10	10	at low tide , you can see mountains of household garbage , old sofas and even washing machines .	at low tide , you can see mountains of household trash , old sofas and even washing machines .
detritus	debris	NN	detritus	debris	9	9	elite sailors have warned that high-speed collisions with floating detritus could damage or even sink sailboats during the olympics .	elite sailors have warned that high-speed collisions with floating debris could damage or even sink sailboats during the olympics .
detritus	trash	NN	detritus	trash	9	9	elite sailors have warned that high-speed collisions with floating detritus could damage or even sink sailboats during the olympics .	elite sailors have warned that high-speed crashes with floating trash could damage or even sink sailboats during the olympics .
address	tackle	VB	address	tackle	4	4	the vessels do n't address sewage , but authorities insist they 'll make a big dent in the overall pollution .	the ships do n't tackle sewage , but authorities insist they 'll make a big dent in the overall pollution .
flimsy	weak	JJ	flimsy	weak	9	12	existing '' eco-barriers '' on some rivers are too flimsy and allow most of the trash through , he said .	the '' eco-barriers '' already being used on some rivers are too weak and allow most of the trash through , he said .
tortoise	turtle	NN	tortoise	turtle	5	2	so far , no rare tortoise or turtle with identification markings has turned up in illegal markets monitored by law enforcement authorities , conservationists said .	no marked turtle has turned up in an illegal market .
nearby	close	RB	nearby	close	10	10	the shaking would be three times stronger than in areas nearby .	the shaking would be three times stronger than in areas close by , scientists said .
earth	land	NN	earth	land	12	13	that 's because the city sits atop a soft piece of the earth , they said .	the reason is the city sits on top of a soft piece of land .
see	look	VB	see	look	7	7	denolle and other researchers are starting to see this noise in a new light .	denolle and other scientists are starting to look at the weak waves differently .
earth	ground	NN	earth	ground	8	11	the weak seismic waves move through the same earth that stronger earthquake waves move through .	the weak seismic waves from the ocean move through the same ground that stronger earthquake waves move through .
ground	earth	NN	ground	earth	11	11	the weak seismic waves from the ocean move through the same ground that stronger earthquake waves move through .	the weak seismic waves made by the ocean move through the earth .
say	talk	VBP	say	talk	2	2	parks officials say that some areas meant for tennis , basketball or volleyball have seen more soccer balls bounced on them than anything else in recent years .	parks officials talk about courts meant for tennis , basketball or volleyball .
normally	usually	RB	normally	usually	2	2	futsal is normally played with teams of five rather than 11 as in soccer .	futsal is usually played with teams of five .
fee	cost	NN	fee	cost	2	2	the entrance fee is usually $ 5 .	the entrance cost is usually $ 5 .
spy	intelligence	NN	spy	intelligence	8	8	the times and propublica said a 2012 british spy report laid out how to gather '' angry bird '' users ' information from phones .	the times and propublica said a 2012 british intelligence report explained how to gather information on '' angry birds '' players .
material	information	NN	material	information	18	5	danielle rhodes ha , a times spokeswoman , attributed the posting to a production error and said the material had been removed .	a times spokeswoman said the information had been posted by error .
full	full-fledged	JJ	full	full-fledged	15	14	for a few glorious decades in the 1800s , the rocky sphere was considered a full planet in our solar system .	for a time in the 1800s , the rocky sphere was even considered a full-fledged planet .
evolution	development	NN	evolution	development	15	16	that discovery , published in the magazine nature , could have fascinating implications for the evolution of our solar system .	that discovery , published in the magazine nature , could tell us something fascinating about the development of our solar system .
high	large	JJ	high	large	13	14	ceres ' relatively low density told astronomers that it could potentially have a high amount of water ice stored away .	because ceres is n't very dense , astronomers think that it could have a large amount of water .
amount	size	NN	amount	size	14	7	ceres ' relatively low density told astronomers that it could potentially have a high amount of water ice stored away .	ceres is n't very dense for its size .
think	believe	VBP	think	believe	8	3	because ceres is n't very dense , astronomers think that it could have a large amount of water .	that made astronomers believe it could have a high amount of water .
large	high	JJ	large	high	14	8	because ceres is n't very dense , astronomers think that it could have a large amount of water .	that made astronomers believe it could have a high amount of water .
icy	ice	NN	icy	ice	1	3	the icy asteroid also supports the idea that asteroids are n't as dry as expected , kuppers said .	the discovery of ice on ceres also supports the idea that asteroids are n't as dry as expected , kuppers said .
wage	pay	NN	wage	pay	12	9	he also wants to pass an across-the-board increase in the federal minimum wage and give more children access to early childhood education .	he also wants to pass an increase in minimum pay for workers and give more children the chance to go to preschool .
pass	go	VB	pass	go	4	10	he also wants to pass an across-the-board increase in the federal minimum wage and give more children access to early childhood education .	obama also hopes to give more children the chance to go to preschool .
extend	increase	VB	extend	increase	8	8	but he 'll need congress in order to extend that increase to all of america 's workers .	but he 'll need congress in order to increase pay for all of america 's workers .
major	significant	JJ	major	significant	22	22	he promised the american people that he would unite washington and that his re-election would make it easier for congress to pass major laws .	he promised the american people that he would unite washington and that his re-election would make it easier for congress to pass significant laws .
concept	approach	NN	concept	approach	9	9	now kenosha 's civil war museum has updated the concept to the 21st century .	now kenosha 's civil war museum has updated that approach to the 21st century .
location	spot	NN	location	spot	5	5	old world wisconsin was the location chosen for filming , particularly the norwegian farmstead area , catholic church and town hall .	old world wisconsin was the spot chosen for filming .
location	place	NN	location	place	5	5	old world wisconsin was the location chosen for filming , particularly the norwegian farmstead area , catholic church and town hall .	old world wisconsin was the place chosen for filming .
camera	chamber	NN	camera	chamber	3	19	a special 360-degree camera , which was actually nine high-definition digital cameras attached to a periscope rig , was used to film the battle scenes .	this was actually nine high-definition digital cameras attached to a rig that allowed the filmmakers to sit inside a chamber and film the action outside .
plan	design	VB	plan	design	4	3	and a coordinator helped plan the re-enactors moves during the fighting .	a coordinator helped design the re-enactors ' moves .
actual	real-life	JJ	actual	real-life	13	13	the battle in the museum 's movie is not a recreation of an actual event .	the battle in the museum 's movie is n't based exactly on a real-life event .
real	real-life	JJ	real	real-life	12	13	the battle shown in the museum 's movie is n't exactly a real historical event .	the battle in the museum 's movie is n't based exactly on a real-life event .
phrase	expression	NN	phrase	expression	15	12	the film 's title was chosen because '' seeing the elephant '' was a common phrase used by civil war soldiers to describe their first experience of battle .	this was chosen because '' seeing the elephant '' was a common expression during the civil war .
discharge	dump	VBP	discharge	dump	13	13	another 700 million use unhygienic facilities such as '' hanging latrines '' that discharge directly into streams , or buckets that may simply be emptied in the streets .	another 700 million use unhygienic facilities such as '' hanging latrines '' that dump directly into streams , or buckets that may simply be emptied in the streets .
model	design	NN	model	design	12	11	kohler contacted caltech and offered to supply fixtures for the first prototype model .	kohler contacted caltech and offered to supply parts for the first design .
cell	battery	NN	cell	battery	13	8	the caltech toilet with its solar panel , electrochemical reactor and hydrogen fuel cell also has been criticized as being too complicated .	the caltech toilet with its solar panel and battery also has been criticized as being too complicated .
technical	technological	JJ	technical	technological	21	21	the developing world 's sanitation problems are immediate , and are far more organizational , motivational and social than they are technical , he said in an email .	the developing world 's sanitation problems are immediate , and are far more organizational , motivational and social than they are technological , he said .
shoreline	shore	NN	shoreline	shore	11	13	releasing his net , the fisherman took off running down the shoreline , shouting for swimmers to get out of the water .	the fisherman let go of his net and took off running down the shore , shouting for swimmers to get out of the water .
rise	increase	NN	rise	increase	10	10	in a state where tourism drives the economy , the rise in shark encounters has alarmed visitors and business owners alike .	in a state where tourism is very important , the increase in shark attacks has alarmed visitors and business owners alike .
snowstorm	snow	NN	snowstorm	snow	4	11	atlanta defensive about the snowstorm that paralyzed atlanta this week , officials said they followed the lessons learned from the last big storm .	they said they were following lessons learned from the last big snow .
private	privately-owned	JJ	private	privately-owned	17	13	they built up new salt piles , deployed new equipment , and started new plans to use private snowplows to clear the roads .	they built up new salt piles , bought new equipment and began using privately-owned snowplows to clear the roads .
storm	snowstorm	NN	storm	snowstorm	2	2	the 2011 storm hit on a sunday night .	the 2011 snowstorm hit on a sunday night .
message	information	NN	message	information	23	21	instead , deal and other state officials said they lacked clear notice from the national weather service on which to base such a message .	instead , the officials blamed meteorologists , complaining that the national weather service -lrb- nws -rrb- did n't give them clear information .
vigorous	rigorous	JJ	vigorous	rigorous	18	18	but some policy experts are nervous because nearly 20 states have followed texas ' lead in requiring the vigorous course .	but some policy experts are concerned because nearly 20 states have followed texas ' lead in requiring the rigorous course .
rigorous	tough	JJ	rigorous	tough	18	11	but some policy experts are concerned because nearly 20 states have followed texas ' lead in requiring the rigorous course .	nearly 20 states had followed texas ' lead in requiring the tough course , and the some people are worried these states may now drop it .
large	many	JJ	large	many	6	1	texas ' textbook market is so large that edits made for its classrooms can affect books sold nationwide .	so many textbooks are bought in texas that changes made for its classrooms can affect books sold nationwide .
curriculum	course	NN	curriculum	course	5	6	they argued the state 's curriculum was too rigid and no longer met the needs of the modern workforce .	the group argued the state 's course of study was too rigid and did n't meet the needs of the modern workforce .
beneficial	helpful	JJ	beneficial	helpful	5	5	witte said the course is beneficial , but he and texas lawmakers argued the vigorous math course was pushing some students to drop out .	witte said the course is helpful , but he and texas lawmakers argued the rigorous math course was pushing some students to drop out .
correlation	link	NN	correlation	link	3	3	they found no correlation between graduation rates and higher standards , said dounay zinth , the education policy analyst .	they found no link between graduation rates and higher standards , said zinth , the education policy analyst .
time	occasion	NN	time	occasion	16	1	the holiday is when chinese workers are expected to return to their home villages and share time and gifts with their families and friends .	the occasion is when chinese workers are expected to return to their home villages .
stress	strain	NN	stress	strain	11	11	for weeks in china , newspapers have published reports about the stress of the holiday .	for weeks in china , newspapers have published reports about the strain of the holiday .
inevitable	unavoidable	JJ	inevitable	unavoidable	8	8	for the young unwed , there will be inevitable questions about why they have n't yet married .	for the young unwed , there will be unavoidable questions about why they have n't yet married .
service	office	NN	service	office	18	8	most of them are young men from neighboring or far-flung provinces who moved here to take factory or service jobs , often living in squalid and crowded conditions .	they moved to beijing to take factory or office jobs , often living in run-down and crowded conditions .
proliferate	multiply	VBP	proliferate	multiply	3	4	as electronic devices proliferate , retailers are seeing record numbers of used laptops , smartphones and tablets being sold for quick cash or credit .	as electronic devices rapidly multiply , so do the number of used devices being sold for quick cash or credit .
performance	concert	NN	performance	concert	10	10	milwaukee a priceless 300-year-old stradivarius violin was stolen after a performance last monday .	milwaukee a 300-year-old , rare violin was stolen after a concert last monday .
amount	value	NN	amount	value	14	14	chicago violin seller stefan hersh said the lipinski violin was worth about the same amount as another stradivarius .	in 2008 , a chicago violin seller said the lipinski violin was close in value to another stradivarius .
anonymous	unknown	JJ	anonymous	unknown	10	14	the instrument was on indefinite loan to almond from its anonymous owners .	the instrument was on long-term loan to almond from its owners , who are unknown .
high-speed	fast	JJ	high-speed	fast	12	9	march , 58 , has spent more than a decade developing the high-speed amphibious car he is about to take to market for $ 135,000 apiece .	march has spent more than 10 years developing a fast car that operates on water , or is amphibious .
view	sight	NN	view	sight	4	4	the shore disappears from view , and a whale comes up for air .	the shore disappears from sight .
shore	land	NN	shore	land	1	0	the shore disappears from view , and a whale comes up for air .	land disappears from sight .
leap	jump	VBP	leap	jump	14	1	as march moves into deeper water and the shore disappears from view , dolphins leap up around him and a whale comes up for air .	dolphins jump out of the water around him and a whale comes up for air .
yacht	boat	NN	yacht	boat	18	12	the grin on march 's face is so large you can see it from the deck of his yacht .	you can see march 's big grin from the deck of another boat .
blond	blonde	JJ	blond	blonde	2	1	his unruly blond hair falls on either side of his gray-blue eyes .	his blonde hair falls on either side of his gray-blue eyes .
conserve	save	VB	conserve	save	9	17	and they 're putting mulch on the landscaping to conserve as much water as possible .	and they 're covering the garden 's soil with mulch to keep moisture in the ground and save as much water as possible .
soil	ground	NN	soil	ground	13	15	and they 're putting mulch on the landscaping to trap moisture in the soil and conserve as much water as possible .	and they 're covering the garden 's soil with mulch to keep moisture in the ground and save as much water as possible .
flushing	toilet-flushing	NN	flushing	toilet-flushing	17	13	but when you have 700,000 visitors annually , there 's still going to be a lot of flushing going on .	low-flow or not , there 's still going to be a lot of toilet-flushing .
court	judge	NN	court	judge	5	1	16 when a federal district court ruled that the nsa 's collection of americans ' phone records that snowden first exposed was probably unconstitutional .	a judge ruled that the national security agency 's collection of americans ' phone records was probably against the constitution .
collection	gathering	NN	collection	gathering	11	7	16 when a federal district court ruled that the nsa 's collection of americans ' phone records that snowden first exposed was probably unconstitutional .	a judge ruled that the nsa 's gathering of the information was probably against the constitution .
personal	private	JJ	personal	private	12	12	most people do n't want to share the intimate details of their personal lives with government snoops .	most people do n't want to share the the details of their private lives with government spies .
massive	widespread	JJ	massive	widespread	1	1	this massive information-gathering is in fact being used against citizens who are involved in activities that are protected by our constitution .	this widespread gathering of our personal information is in fact being used against ordinary citizens who are simply involved in activities that are protected by our constitution .
information-gathering	information	NN	information-gathering	information	2	6	this massive information-gathering is in fact being used against citizens who are involved in activities that are protected by our constitution .	this widespread gathering of our personal information is in fact being used against ordinary citizens who are simply involved in activities that are protected by our constitution .
information-gathering	gathering	NN	information-gathering	gathering	2	2	this massive information-gathering is in fact being used against citizens who are involved in activities that are protected by our constitution .	this widespread gathering of our personal information is in fact being used against ordinary citizens who are simply involved in activities that are protected by our constitution .
intelligence	information	NN	intelligence	information	9	10	as a result they seem to have ignored the intelligence that was literally handed to them about the terrorists who bombed the boston marathon in april .	as a result , they seem to have ignored the information that was literally handed to them about the terrorists who bombed the boston marathon .
information	intelligence	NN	information	intelligence	10	13	as a result , they seem to have ignored the information that was literally handed to them about the terrorists who bombed the boston marathon .	as a result , the law enforcement groups seem to have ignored important intelligence .
military-intelligence	military	JJ	military-intelligence	military	4	4	and it is our military-intelligence community 's power that is currently blocking reforms to reduce the nsa 's abuses .	and it is our military and spies who are trying to block attempts to reduce the nsa 's abuses .
wrong-doing	wrongdoing	NN	wrong-doing	wrongdoing	19	19	both men claim a noble purpose : to use the power of the internet to expose the corruption and wrong-doing of totalitarian regimes .	both men claim a noble purpose : to use the power of the internet to expose the corruption and wrongdoing of brutal , oppressive governments .
fundamental	essential	JJ	fundamental	essential	6	7	respect for individual privacy is a fundamental part of freedom .	respect for our private lives is an essential part of freedom .
function	role	NN	function	role	10	10	free societies recognize that keeping legitimate secrets is a legitimate function of government .	free societies recognize that keeping some secrets is a necessary role of government .
function	job	NN	function	job	10	10	free societies recognize that keeping legitimate secrets is a legitimate function of government .	free societies recognize that keeping some secrets is a necessary job of government .
discard	throw	VB	discard	throw	6	6	no one has the right to discard those rules and substitute rules of his own devising .	no one has the right to throw away those rules and substitute rules that he chooses .
malfeasance	wrongdoing	NN	malfeasance	wrongdoing	14	14	the united states system of ordered liberty offers multiple ways to raise claims of malfeasance or abuse of power without compromising national security .	the united states system of ordered liberty offers multiple ways to raise claims of wrongdoing or abuse of power without compromising national security .
wrongdoing	wrong-doing	NN	wrongdoing	wrong-doing	14	14	the united states system of ordered liberty offers multiple ways to raise claims of wrongdoing or abuse of power without compromising national security .	the united states system of ordered liberty offers several ways to raise claims of wrong-doing without endangering our country .
even	still	RB	even	still	16	15	but many of the states that were among the poorest decades ago remain so today , even as safety-net programs have benefited millions of americans .	but many of the states that were among the poorest all those years ago are still poor today .
elevated	high	JJ	elevated	high	4	5	they continue to have elevated levels today , by both census measures .	those states continue to have high levels today .
focus	concentrate	VB	focus	concentrate	10	10	he says that debates about the war on poverty should focus on the broader measure and benefits of the safety net .	he says that discussions about the war on poverty should concentrate on the broader measure and benefits of the safety net .
image	photograph	NN	image	photograph	11	18	lewis hine the father of american documentary photography captured the haunting image of the too-young textile employee in 1908 .	lewis hine the father of a type of american photography that showed people 's daily life captured the photograph of the too-young textile employee in 1908 .
put	given	VBN	put	give	13	9	in this case , he also wants to get business leaders who have put money in these projects to ask for congressional action .	he also wants to get business leaders who have given money to these projects to ask congress to act .
at-home	home	NN	at-home	home	8	12	the cost varies widely , from $ 99 at-home kits -lrb- such as the controversial 23andme -rrb- to thousands of dollars for tests conducted at hospitals and clinics .	the cost of genetic testing varies widely , from $ 99 for home kits to thousands of dollars for tests at hospitals .
odds	chances	NNS	odds	chance	9	10	it may cause harm by raising anxiety about the odds of developing a disease .	it may even cause harm by raising worries about the chances of developing a disease .
agreement	deal	NN	agreement	deal	11	11	now 51 , maalouli and her three sisters have made an agreement .	now 51 , maalouli and her three sisters have made a deal .
turn	change	NN	turn	change	5	5	it also marks a major turn for one of the country 's biggest health care companies .	it also marks a major change for one of the country 's biggest health care companies .
global	total	JJ	global	total	23	10	nationwide , less than 5 percent of cigarette sales occurred in pharmacies in 2009 , according to a study by the center for global tobacco control .	nationwide , drugstores sold less than 5 percent of the total number of cigarettes bought in 2009 .
curb	stop	VB	curb	stop	17	8	public health advocates hailed the cvs decision , expressing optimism that it could catalyze new efforts to curb tobacco use .	they believe it could start new efforts to stop tobacco use .
tobacco	smoking	NN	tobacco	smoking	18	10	public health advocates hailed the cvs decision , expressing optimism that it could catalyze new efforts to curb tobacco use .	they say it could start new efforts to stop people smoking .
retailer	store	NN	retailer	store	2	8	no major retailer has taken steps to limit tobacco sales since target announced in 1996 that it would stop selling tobacco products .	in 1996 , target was the last major store to stop selling tobacco products .
contribute	help	VB	contribute	help	11	8	cvs executives said they hoped the company 's decision would also contribute to the ongoing campaign to make tobacco use socially unacceptable .	cvs executives said they hoped the decision would help make tobacco use socially unacceptable .
smoking	smoke	NN	smoking	smoke	8	5	in june , starbucks began prohibiting smokers from smoking within a 25 feet of its shops .	starbucks does n't let people smoke near its coffee shops .
number	amount	NN	number	amount	5	4	his analysis found that the number of people moving to those '' high flyers '' from other states actually fell between 2012 and 2013 .	he found that the amount of people moving to states like florida and arizona from other states actually fell between 2012 and 2013 .
downturn	recession	NN	downturn	recession	8	8	though more people are migrating than during the downturn , '' it 's been a puzzle that it 's taken so long .	though more people are migrating than during the recession , '' it 's been a puzzle that it 's taken so long .
region	part	NN	region	part	6	5	for example , the entire northeastern region was estimated to have lost more than 208,000 residents to other parts of the country .	for example , the northeastern part of the country lost more than 208,000 people who once lived there .
room	part	NN	room	part	13	9	another were the buckets found catching water leaking from the roof inside a room where priceless artworks are kept .	buckets catch water leaking from the roof in one part of the palace .
household	family	NN	household	family	5	4	lawmakers also said the royal household should learn to live with fewer underlings .	lawmakers said the royal family should learn to live with fewer underlings as well .
huge	large	JJ	huge	large	2	3	such a huge backlog has built up that no one knows how much it would cost to deal with all of it .	it 's so large that no one knows how much it would cost to fix it all .
proficiency	ability	NN	proficiency	ability	1	1	reading proficiency remained level in connecticut , which had the highest percentage of fourth-graders reading proficiently in 2003 , and in montana .	reading ability remained the same in connecticut and montana .
striking	dramatic	JJ	striking	dramatic	11	11	still , the range of reading skills across the states was striking .	still , the range of reading skills across the states was dramatic .
proportion	number	NN	proportion	number	1	1	the proportion of fourth-grade students reading proficiently last year ranged from 21 percent in new mexico and mississippi to 57 percent in massachusetts .	the number of fourth-grade students reading at grade level last year ranged from 21 percent in new mexico and mississippi to 57 percent in massachusetts .
highest	biggest	JJS	highest	biggest	10	7	some states that scored well on average showed among the highest gaps in reading between students from lower-income and higher-income families .	but these states had some of the biggest reading gaps between poorer students and richer students .
attributable	due	JJ	attributable	due	5	5	the widening reading gap is attributable to students from higher-income households making much more progress in reading than students from lower-income households .	the growing reading gap is due to students from higher-income households making much more progress in reading than students from lower-income households .
common	single	JJ	common	single	21	15	this high rate , almost three times the average , has baffled marine biologists and made them wonder if a deadly common denominator is at play .	the strandings have baffled marine biologists and made them wonder if there could be a single , deadly explanation .
ailment	illness	NN	ailment	illness	12	12	among the theories : the whales might have contracted morbillivirus , an ailment similar to canine distemper that has been attacking dolphins along the east coast this year .	one theory is that the whales might have contracted morbillivirus , an illness similar to measles .
larger	bigger	JJR	larger	bigger	4	4	sperm whales are considerably larger , up to 60 feet and 40 tons , or roughly the size of a school bus .	sperm whales are much bigger .
say	point	VBP	say	point	2	2	government biologists say one problem they face during rescue tries is overzealous bystanders , who attempt to push the large marine mammals back into the sea .	government biologists point to one problem they face during rescue tries : well-meaning bystanders often attempt to push the large marine mammals back into the sea .
indicate	say	VB	indicate	say	4	4	the report did n't indicate whose decision it was to toss the lunches .	the report did not say whose decision it was to toss the lunches .
accountable	responsible	JJ	accountable	responsible	11	9	some parents urged district leaders to hold orton and his staff accountable .	some parents said they want orton to be held responsible .
definitive	final	JJ	definitive	final	11	11	he said the investigation was ongoing and his report was n't definitive .	he said the investigation was ongoing and his report was n't final .
distinct	separate	JJ	distinct	separate	6	6	there are at least nine genetically distinct '' ecotypes , '' brad hanson , a seattle scientist with the national marine fisheries service , wrote in an email .	there are at least nine genetically separate '' ecotypes , '' said brad hanson .
separate	different	JJ	separate	different	6	5	there are at least nine genetically separate '' ecotypes , '' said brad hanson .	there are at least nine different '' ecotypes , '' said brad hanson .
population	group	NN	population	group	9	8	but the numbers can change depending on which specific population was studied and during what period .	but the numbers can change depending on which group was studied and during what period .
longevity	lifespan	NN	longevity	lifespan	1	2	maximum longevity has been estimated at up to 90 years for females and 70 years for males , depending on the study .	the maximum lifespan has been estimated at up to 90 years for females and 70 years for males , depending on the study .
substantially	much	RB	substantially	much	15	15	the annual survival rate for killer whales held at seaworld facilities since the 1960s is substantially lower .	the annual survival rate for killer whales held at seaworld parks since the 1960s is much lower .
help	allow	VB	help	allow	13	2	attorney brian mitchell , who represents aerospace insurers , said new standards would help insurers better understand the dangers of spaceflight and adjust accordingly .	regulation would allow them to better understand the dangers of spaceflight and adjust accordingly .
assault	attack	NN	assault	attack	7	5	the sport is an acrobatic , free-form assault on a snowy obstacle course of rails and jumps .	the sport is an acrobatic attack on a snowy course of rails and jumps .
sound	good	JJ	sound	good	4	3	white '' made a sound athletic decision , '' said jeremy forster , the ussa 's snowboarding and free-skiing director .	white made a good athletic decision , said jeremy forster .
pleasant	good	JJ	pleasant	good	12	9	it often ranks near the bottom in surveys of cities that are pleasant to live in .	it often ranks near the bottom in surveys of good cities to live in .
unintentional	accidental	JJ	unintentional	accidental	10	11	but in recent years , it has been getting an unintentional makeover .	however , in recent years , it has been getting an accidental makeover .
demand	need	NN	demand	need	4	10	that 's because the demand is so high that the price has doubled , pettis county 's hampy said .	that 's because the price has doubled because of the need , pettis county 's hampy said .
cause	bring	VB	cause	bring	8	7	even extreme environmental conditions are not enough to cause any long-term decline in the state 's stink bug population .	even extreme weather is not enough to bring down the state 's stink bug population .
less	smaller	JJR	less	smaller	7	8	moore hopes the stink bugs will be less of a nuisance in the future .	moore hopes the stink bugs will be a smaller problem in the future .
vacant	empty	JJ	vacant	empty	9	7	the tequesta village site covers roughly half of a vacant , two-acre city block on the north side of the river .	the tequesta village site is on an empty , two-acre city block on the north side of the river .
substantial	significant	JJ	substantial	significant	21	6	mdm , which already has leases and agreements for the theaters , restaurants and hotel , says it could lose a substantial amount of money if that happens .	mdm says it could lose a significant amount of money if that happens .
plaza	square	NN	plaza	square	27	26	the developer has offered to carve out the limestone holding one or two of the larger circles on the site and display those in a planned public plaza .	the developer has offered to carve out the limestone holding one or two of the larger circles on the site and display those in a public square .
major	strong	JJ	major	strong	17	8	preservationists and city board members say there is growing support for measures to save and create a major exhibit around at least some of the archaeological site .	preservationists and city board members say there is strong support to create an exhibit around part of the archaeological site .
ministry	department	NN	ministry	department	11	11	she leaves home unescorted every day , working at a government ministry and attending university classes at night .	she leaves home unescorted every day , working at a government department and attending university classes at night .
son	child	NN	son	child	9	8	he helps with housework and caring for their infant son , a radical act that some male friends consider weak and shameful .	he helps with housework and caring for their child , something that some male friends consider shameful .
child	son	NN	child	son	8	9	he helps with housework and caring for their child , something that some male friends consider shameful .	he helps with housework and caring for their baby son .
repeal	cancel	VB	repeal	cancel	11	8	a human rights commissioner appointed by president hamid karzai wants to repeal a 2009 law prohibiting violence against women .	the country 's human rights commissioner wants to cancel a law banning violence against women , which is ignored and poorly enforced .
sometimes	often	RB	sometimes	often	19	6	some women and girls who flee arranged marriages are hunted down by their fathers and brothers , beaten and sometimes killed .	girls who flee arranged marriages are often hunted down by their families .
clandestine	illegal	JJ	clandestine	illegal	12	17	under the taliban government , the only education for girls was in clandestine home schools .	under the taliban government , the only education for girls was in home schools , which were illegal .
clandestine	secret	JJ	clandestine	secret	12	11	under the taliban government , the only education for girls was in clandestine home schools .	under the taliban , the only education for girls was in secret home schools , which were forbidden .
home	country	NN	home	country	17	19	she is ghazalan koofi 's aunt and an outspoken member of parliament who taught at an underground home school for girls during the taliban 's rule .	fawzia koofi is a parliament member who taught at an underground school for girls when the taliban ran the country .
weather	climate	NN	weather	climate	21	23	they show that the tropics have been a major source of biodiversity for the cooler regions of the planet with little weather change .	they show that the tropics have been a source of different types of creatures in the cooler regions of the planet with little climate change .
appropriate	fitting	JJ	appropriate	fitting	7	7	weyant said the border wall was an appropriate place to make music because it 's haunted with stories .	weyant said the border wall is a fitting place to make music .
panel	sign	NN	panel	sign	10	4	he added that the wording was developed by a national panel of nutrition and public health experts .	he added that the sign was written by experts .
consumption	drinking	NN	consumption	drinking	5	8	they worry about the heavy consumption of sugary drinks and associated health problems among minorities .	they worry about the high rates of soda drinking and connected health problems among minorities .
heavy	high	JJ	heavy	high	4	4	they worry about the heavy consumption of sugary drinks and associated health problems among minorities .	they worry about the high rates of soda drinking and connected health problems among minorities .
increase	raise	VB	increase	raise	19	6	the group would not put a price tag on complying with the proposed legislation but said the measure would increase the cost of doing business in california .	but it said the law would raise the cost of doing business in california .
intelligent	smart	JJ	intelligent	smart	23	23	he said the labeling would be consistent with the industry 's own stated goal of providing consumers with the information to make an intelligent choice .	he said the labeling would be in line with the beverage makers ' own goal of giving consumers the information to make a smart choice .
beverage	drink	NN	beverage	drink	10	10	he said the labeling would be in line with the beverage makers ' own goal of giving consumers the information to make a smart choice .	he said the labeling would be in line with the drink makers ' own goal .
freestyle-skiing	freestyle	NN	freestyle-skiing	freestyle	19	6	finally , in a burst of revised thinking between 1992 and 2010 , the ioc added short-track speedskating and freestyle-skiing and snowboarding disciplines .	the ioc added short-track speedskating and freestyle versions of skiing and snowboarding .
freestyle-skiing	skiing	NN	freestyle-skiing	skiing	19	9	finally , in a burst of revised thinking between 1992 and 2010 , the ioc added short-track speedskating and freestyle-skiing and snowboarding disciplines .	the ioc added short-track speedskating and freestyle versions of skiing and snowboarding .
injure	hurt	VB	injure	hurt	11	8	for his part , dubi said he was n't trying to injure or eliminate any existing sports by lobbying for the changes .	dubi did say he was n't trying to hurt or get rid of any existing sports .
corridor	hallway	NN	corridor	hallway	16	16	safed , israel the 9-year-old syrian boy with no legs wheeled himself down a bright hospital corridor .	safed , israel the 9-year-old syrian boy with no legs wheeled himself down a bright hospital hallway .
endeavor	effort	NN	endeavor	effort	1	1	the endeavor has cost about $ 17 million so far , officials say , and has been praised as a triumph of humanitarianism over geopolitical concerns .	the effort , which was launched by the israeli army , has cost about $ 17 million so far .
arabic-speaking	arabic	JJ	arabic-speaking	arabic	20	11	the stream of wounded syrians has changed the feel in the hospital 's wards and especially the lives of its arabic-speaking staff .	and it has especially changed the lives of the hospital 's arabic speakers .
relentless	unstoppable	JJ	relentless	unstoppable	1	5	such relentless effort was needed for davis and white to beat the 2010 olympic champions , tessa virtue and scott moir of canada .	davis and white needed an unstoppable effort to beat the 2010 olympic champions .
arena	rink	NN	arena	rink	16	14	their interpretation of '' swan lake , '' full of poses and movements that turned the arena into the bolshoi theater , was utterly balletic and seamless .	their take on the ballet music of '' swan lake '' made the ice rink feel like a theater .
balletic	ballet	JJ	balletic	ballet	24	4	their interpretation of '' swan lake , '' full of poses and movements that turned the arena into the bolshoi theater , was utterly balletic and seamless .	their take on the ballet music of '' swan lake '' made the ice rink feel like a theater .
stigma	shame	NN	stigma	shame	13	13	the student , who did n't want to be identified because of the stigma of mental illness , is not alone .	the student , who did n't want to be identified because of the shame of mental illness , is not alone .
stress	pressure	NN	stress	pressure	13	5	and it is striking ever younger children , although many quietly bear the stress for years before snapping .	many students quietly bear the pressure for years before snapping .
good	perfect	JJ	good	perfect	6	14	the student said she was very good at putting up a front .	the student said her parents raised her to make it seem like everything was perfect .
good	right	JJ	good	right	6	6	the student said she was very good at putting up a front .	she always did and said the right things .
academic	educational	JJ	academic	educational	25	12	though not yet reflected in lagging and incomplete national statistics , the trend appears to cut across social class , income level , ethnicity and academic ability .	the anxiety cuts across social class , income level , ethnicity and educational ability .
uncertain	unclear	JJ	uncertain	unclear	6	9	what 's behind the rise is uncertain .	what 's behind the increase in mental illness is unclear .
radiant	bright	JJ	radiant	bright	0	4	radiant white , except for black wingtips and a red scalp , whooping cranes were named for their '' whooping '' threat alarm siren .	whooping cranes are a bright white color , except for black wingtips and a red scalp .
permit	allow	VB	permit	allow	6	5	but they also would have to permit similar attire without the motto and the uniforms of other groups in addition to the scouts .	and they would have to allow the uniforms of other groups in addition to the scouts .
adolescent	young	JJ	adolescent	young	6	6	sigourney , 24 , found two adolescent dogs near the athletes village in the caucasus mountains , and well , it was love at first sight .	sigourney , 24 , found two young dogs near the athletes village in the caucasus mountains , and well , it was love at first sight .
create	build	VB	create	build	10	8	bird , who dreams of someday owning enough land to create an animal sanctuary , does n't know if she will get a puppy home to tennessee .	bird dreams of someday owning enough land to build shelter to keep animals safe .
sanctuary	shelter	NN	sanctuary	shelter	13	9	bird , who dreams of someday owning enough land to create an animal sanctuary , does n't know if she will get a puppy home to tennessee .	bird dreams of someday owning enough land to build shelter to keep animals safe .
calamity	disaster	NN	calamity	disaster	9	5	leaving the event empty-handed was seen as a national calamity for the country where residents are said to be born with nordic skis on their feet .	this is a national sports disaster for the country where residents are said to be born with skis on their feet .
arch-rival	rival	JJ	arch-rival	rival	4	6	making matters worse , arch-rival sweden won both races .	what 's worse , their biggest rival sweden won both races .
fitness	ability	NN	fitness	ability	9	9	but there are also questions about the norwegians ' fitness .	but there are also questions about the norwegians ' ability .
view	think	VBP	view	think	17	17	but officials at the international ski federation -lrb- fis -rrb- , which organizes the cross-country races , view the diversity on the olympic podiums as a positive development .	but officials at the international ski federation -lrb- fis -rrb- , which organizes the cross-country races , think the diversity on the olympic podiums is a good thing .
encampment	camp	NN	encampment	camp	18	19	opposition lawmaker oleksandra kuzhel said the death toll had grown to 15 after security forces moved against the encampment with stun grenades and water cannons .	opposition lawmaker oleksandra kuzhel said the death toll had grown to 15 after security forces moved against the tent camp with stun grenades and water cannons .
accord	agreement	NN	accord	agreement	12	10	their anger was ignited by his decision last november to scrap an accord between ukraine and the european union .	acting on his own , yanukovich decided to scrap an agreement between ukraine and the european union , a group of 28 european countries that trade together .
trend	development	NN	trend	development	4	4	that 's just one trend from an art market that has come roaring back from the global financial crisis .	that 's just one development in an art market that has come roaring back from its recent slump .
display	view	NN	display	view	7	6	sotheby 's put its works on public display in london thursday , and there was a distinct scarlet hue to the star lots .	sotheby 's put its pieces on view this thursday in london .
hoist	lift	VB	hoist	lift	11	13	he happily noted the construction site had a 137-foot crane to hoist it up .	he happily pointed out that the construction site had a 137-foot crane to lift it up .
your-ground-law	law	NN	your-ground-law	law	5	5	but the state 's stand your-ground-law was technically not part of either trial .	but the state 's stand-your-ground law was technically not part of either trial .
devote	spend	VBP	devote	spend	11	8	during and before the football season , he said , they devote 40 to 50 hours a week to the game .	during and before the football season , they spend 40 to 50 hours a week on the game .
law	right	NN	law	right	6	12	whether the players qualify under federal law as employees is the core question for the nlrb .	if nlrb says the athletes are employees , they would have the right to form the union .
maintain	argue	VBP	maintain	argue	12	12	the ncaa and big ten conference , which includes northwestern , both maintain that college students are not employees whatever their participation might be in athletics .	the ncaa and big ten conference , which includes northwestern , both argue that student athletes are not employees .
athletics	athletes	NNS	athletics	athlete	25	15	the ncaa and big ten conference , which includes northwestern , both maintain that college students are not employees whatever their participation might be in athletics .	the ncaa and big ten conference , which includes northwestern , both argue that student athletes are not employees .
invariably	always	RB	invariably	always	4	4	he said chemistry was invariably offered at times that conflicted with football practice .	he said chemistry was always offered at times that conflicted with football practice .
spectacular	remarkable	JJ	spectacular	remarkable	8	5	sochi , russia flushed with pride after a spectacular showing at the costliest olympics ever , russia celebrated .	sochi , russia after a remarkable showing at the costliest olympics ever , russia celebrated .
showing	show	NN	showing	show	9	16	sochi , russia flushed with pride after a spectacular showing at the costliest olympics ever , russia celebrated .	sochi , russia russia celebrated the end of a remarkable olympics sunday night with a farewell show .
non-soviet	soviet	JJ	non-soviet	soviet	12	18	russia 's bag of sochi gold was the biggest-ever haul by a non-soviet team .	this time , russia 's bag of sochi gold was the biggest haul since the breakup of the soviet union in 1991 .
moment	point	NN	moment	point	4	8	the games ' signature moment for home fans was adelina sotnikova .	for home fans , the games ' high point was adelina sotnikova .
highlight	point	NN	highlight	point	3	8	the games ' highlight for home fans was adelina sotnikova .	for home fans , the games ' high point was adelina sotnikova .
strict	harsh	JJ	strict	harsh	8	8	organizers faced criticism going in about russia 's strict policies toward gays .	organizers faced complaints going in about russia 's harsh treatment of gays .
necropsy	autopsy	NN	necropsy	autopsy	11	11	an 18-month-old giraffe , sprawled on the floor during a public necropsy , zookeepers examining the body while children and their parents looked on .	an 18-month-old giraffe lay sprawled on the floor during a public autopsy .
zoo	animal	NN	zoo	animal	4	1	staff at the danish zoo said they had to kill the giraffe , named marius , because it could harm the european giraffe population .	the animal , named marius , could harm the european giraffe population .
manufacturing	making	NN	manufacturing	making	6	6	these consequences criminal activity , illegal manufacturing and distribution , and more took years and significant resources to fully combat .	these effects criminal activity , illegal making and selling of booze , and more took years to battle .
making	manufacturing	NN	making	manufacturing	6	6	these effects criminal activity , illegal making and selling of booze , and more took years to battle .	these effects criminal activity , illegal manufacturing and selling of booze , and more took years to fight .
establishment	founding	NN	establishment	founding	16	4	gambling is woven into american history , having existed in some form since our nation 's establishment .	since our nation 's founding , it 's existed in some form or another .
common-sense	common	JJ	common-sense	common	4	3	let 's rely on common-sense safeguards and consumer protections .	let 's use common sense .
historical	past	JJ	historical	past	8	6	america should instead look back to both our historical mistakes and our historical innovations for inspiration .	america should look back at our past mistakes .
expand	increase	VB	expand	increase	17	14	it 's no surprise then that states like nevada and new jersey are taking the opportunity to expand gambling online .	it 's no surprise then that states like nevada and new jersey want to increase online gambling .
evidence	proof	NN	evidence	proof	5	7	the ngisc received plenty of evidence that problem gambling introduces a heightened level of anxiety into marriages and families .	the ngisc said it found plenty of proof that problem gambling increases anxiety in marriages and families .
immense	huge	JJ	immense	huge	6	7	the total costs to society are immense .	the cost to society from gambling is huge .
surge	rise	NN	surge	rise	19	9	washington the united states is cracking down on the sale and purchase of ivory in hopes of curbing a surge in illegal poaching .	washington the united states is trying to stop a rise in unlawful hunting by cracking down on the sale and purchase of ivory .
forceful	strong	JJ	forceful	strong	6	6	wildlife advocates are concerned that without forceful global action , elephants and rhinos face extinction .	wildlife supporters are worried that without strong global action , elephants and rhinos face extinction .
seize	take	VB	seize	take	17	13	under the new rules , if someone is caught trying to sell ivory , the government will seize the items .	if someone is caught trying to sell ivory now , the government will take it away .
significantly	greatly	RB	significantly	greatly	16	6	there the market price for ivory is more than $ 1,000 a pound and has increased significantly , according to the world wildlife fund .	the price of ivory has increased greatly , according to the world wildlife fund .
prosecute	charge	VB	prosecute	charge	8	8	still , the government wo n't seek to prosecute individuals , such as those who try to sell ivory they inherited from their parents .	still , the government wo n't seek to charge individuals , such as people who try to sell ivory they inherited from their parents .
make	check	VB	make	check	11	11	congressman ed royce said he would review obama 's plan to make sure it is strong and effective .	congressman ed royce said he would look at the plan to check it is strong enough .
magnitude	size	NN	magnitude	size	11	11	similar die-offs have occurred before , but an event of this magnitude has never been documented , scientists said .	similar die-offs have occurred before , but an event of this size has never been documented .
illness	disease	NN	illness	disease	19	6	on the island , a number of diseased sea stars were discovered , trumping an earlier theory that the illness was linked to warmer water , raimondi said .	scientists had earlier thought that the disease was linked to warmer water .
sickness	disease	NN	sickness	disease	7	2	but in underwater sea star species the sickness is much quicker and more deadly .	but the disease is much quicker and more deadly when underwater starfish get it .
kind	type	NN	kind	type	18	13	on the other are those who trumpet the economic payoff and a chance to cash in on a kind of big development project that rarely comes along .	on the other are those who want the money and jobs from the type of big development project that rarely comes along .
ultimately	eventually	RB	ultimately	eventually	7	7	keesis said the project carries risks but ultimately would be a winner for the region .	keesis said the project carries risks but eventually would be a winner for the region .
momentum	boost	NN	momentum	boost	9	6	nationally , project backers appear to be riding the momentum , armed with a state department report on jan .	nationally , project backers got a boost from a state department report on jan .
gym	gymnasium	NN	gym	gymnasium	1	6	the gym had all the excitement of a pep rally before a big game .	buzzing with fifth-grade energy , the gymnasium had all the excitement of a pep rally before a big game .
perceive	see	VBP	perceive	see	8	8	in the next few years , how they perceive themselves as smart , average , college-bound or not may change the path of their educational careers .	in the next few years , how they see themselves as smart , average , college-bound or not may determine whether they go to college .
conversation	talk	NN	conversation	talk	4	3	much of the national conversation about college-going rates has been focused on high-poverty , inner-city schools .	much of the talk about college-going rates has been focused on high-poverty schools .
school	college	NN	school	college	24	10	since it began five years ago , the program has reached into 350 classrooms , so far touching the lives of an estimated 9,000 school kids .	since it began five years ago , it has sent college students into 350 classrooms .
racquetball	squash	NN	racquetball	squash	5	0	the game is similar to racquetball or tennis , but it 's often considered a sport for the wealthy .	squash is played with a racquet , like tennis .
inner-city	inner	JJ	inner-city	inner	7	2	a former squash teacher started the first inner-city program in boston in 1995 .	the first inner city program was began by a former squash teacher in boston in 1995 .
organization	association	NN	organization	association	9	9	in 2005 , the inner-city groups formed the umbrella organization overseen by wyant to organize tournaments and standardize programs .	in 2005 , the inner-city groups formed a squash association to organize games and create programs .
provide	give	VBP	provide	give	4	3	private donors and foundations provide nearly all of the club 's annual $ 570,000 budget , executive director stephen gregg said .	people and foundations give nearly all the money needed to run the club , executive director stephen gregg said .
modernize	update	VB	modernize	update	8	8	she said alpha also plans to expand and modernize its training for young students to ensure the famed music program survives .	she said alpha also plans to expand and update its training for young students to make sure the famous music program survives .
famed	famous	JJ	famed	famous	17	18	she said alpha also plans to expand and modernize its training for young students to ensure the famed music program survives .	she said alpha also plans to expand and update its training for young students to make sure the famous music program survives .
study	learn	VBP	study	learn	11	11	students at the school are taught self-discipline and pride while they study music .	students at the school are taught self-discipline and pride while they learn music .
education	training	NN	education	training	5	4	he has provided a musical education to many boys at the school while working on his own international recording career .	he has given musical training to many boys at the school .
upbeat-accented	upbeat	JJ	upbeat-accented	upbeat	14	11	alpha students with trumpets , trombones and other instruments transformed that music to create upbeat-accented ska music , which later evolved into rocksteady and reggae .	they took their trumpets , trombones and other instruments and created upbeat ska .
exterior	outside	NN	exterior	outside	1	1	the exterior will be layered with 3,600 bronze grid panels to make it gleam .	the outside of the building will be layered with 3,600 bronze grid panels to make it gleam .
recall	remember	VB	recall	remember	12	12	entering , for instance , museum-goers will cross a water feature to recall the experience of slaves crossing the ocean to come to america .	entering the building , for instance , museum-goers will cross water to remember the experience of slaves crossing the ocean to come to america .
instance	body	NN	instance	body	3	7	entering , for instance , museum-goers will cross a water feature to recall the experience of slaves crossing the ocean to come to america .	museum-goers will enter the building across a body of water .
groove	slit	NN	groove	slit	4	1	the points feature a groove that allows them to be secured to a shaft .	this slit allows them to be attached to a wooden spear or dart .
young	new	JJ	young	new	22	9	on thursday , however , he unveiled a program aimed at helping a group he says demands urgent attention black and latino young men .	speaking at the white house , he unveiled a new program .
chapter	part	NN	chapter	part	12	6	the new program was shaped by two meetings obama had with a chapter of the chicago group becoming a man .	the new program was shaped in part by two meetings obama had with the chicago group becoming a man .
mitigate	lessen	VB	mitigate	lessen	8	8	she said researchers suspect that one way to mitigate the harm of being sedentary is with frequent breaks to move around .	she said researchers suspect that one way to lessen the harm caused by sitting is by taking frequent breaks to move around .
armed	military	JJ	armed	military	0	15	armed men in uniforms without insignia have moved freely about the peninsula , occupying airports , smashing equipment at an air base and besieging a ukrainian infantry base .	they 've occupied airports , smashed equipment at an air base and surrounded a ukrainian military base .
elsewhere	also	RB	elsewhere	also	18	4	he insists that russia has a right to protect its interests and those of russian-speakers in crimea and elsewhere in ukraine .	he says it is also protecting russian-speakers who live in crimea .
however	yet	RB	however	yet	0	0	however , ukraine 's eastern and southern regions like crimea look to russia for support .	yet , eastern and southern regions like crimea side with russia .
alliance	partnership	NN	alliance	partnership	4	4	nato is a military alliance between the united states , canada and parts of europe .	nato is a military partnership between the united states , canada and parts of europe .
alliance	nato	NN	alliance	nato	7	8	but ukraine has taken part in some alliance military exercises and contributed troops to its response force .	but ukraine has taken part in some of nato 's military exercises .
telephone	call	NN	telephone	call	7	6	president barack obama spoke with putin by telephone saturday .	president barack obama had a phone call with putin saturday .
pro-invasion	invasion	NN	pro-invasion	invasion	8	9	in moscow , thousands marched sunday in a pro-invasion rally one day after russia 's parliament gave putin a green light to use military force in ukraine .	in moscow , thousands marched sunday to support the invasion .
reinforce	strengthen	VB	reinforce	strengthen	18	19	classes include a warm-up , technical drills to learn the basics of safety and games to teach and reinforce parkor techniques .	classes include a warm-up , technical drills to learn the basics of safety , and games to teach and strengthen parkor techniques .
leap	jump	NN	leap	jump	15	8	they teach students how to walk on or hurtle over balance beams and lift , leap or weave their way through whatever else was in their path .	they teach students how to walk on or jump over balance beams .
challenging	difficult	JJ	challenging	difficult	16	7	both newcomers and advanced learners trained together , but those with more experience were given more challenging training .	those with more experience are given more difficult training .
new	brand-new	JJ	new	brand-new	7	6	los angeles by working in a brand new way , scientists using nasa 's kepler space telescope have found 715 confirmed planets huddling around 305 stars .	los angeles by working in a brand-new way , scientists using nasa 's kepler space telescope have found 715 new planets outside our solar system .
way	method	NN	way	method	8	5	los angeles by working in a brand new way , scientists using nasa 's kepler space telescope have found 715 confirmed planets huddling around 305 stars .	los angeles using a brand-new method , scientists using nasa 's kepler space telescope have found 715 new planets outside our solar system .
potentially	possibly	RB	potentially	possibly	13	13	this new haul featured planets that are in the right size range to potentially host life as we know it .	this new haul featured planets that are in the right size range to possibly host life as we know it .
devise	design	VB	devise	design	7	4	two teams of researchers were able to devise a probability-based method that focused on these multiplanet systems .	scientists were able to design a method that focused on these multiplanet systems .
multi-planet	multiplanet	JJ	multi-planet	multiplanet	1	1	the multi-planet systems will help scientists understand our own solar system 's development , she said .	the multiplanet systems will help scientists understand our own solar system , she said .
long	far	RB	long	far	4	10	it did n't take long for the radio station to realize that it had overplayed its hand .	the radio station soon realized that it had gone too far .
hoax	prank	NN	hoax	prank	21	21	ximena paez said her father always believed that security did n't react because they were embarrassed over having fallen for the hoax .	ximena paez said her father always believed that security did n't react because they were embarrassed over having fallen for the prank .
hoax	trick	NN	hoax	trick	21	20	ximena paez said her father always believed that security did n't react because they were embarrassed over having fallen for the hoax .	ximena paez said her father believed that police did n't react because they were embarrassed over having fallen for the trick .
inquiry	investigation	NN	inquiry	investigation	3	3	ecuador launched an inquiry into the event .	ecuador launched an investigation into the event .
base	rule	NN	base	rule	8	6	starting this spring , nepali officials at everest base camp will check that each climber descends the mountain with about 18 pounds of trash .	the country has made a new rule that each climber must leave the mountain with about 18 pounds of garbage .
clear	clean	VB	clear	clean	7	7	the government has long asked climbers to clear their trash , but there was no mechanism to check what people brought down .	the government has long asked climbers to clean up their trash .
trek	hike	VB	trek	hike	16	9	some 230,000 people nearly half of nepal 's yearly foreign visitors came last year specifically to trek the himalayas , with 810 attempting to scale everest .	about 230,000 people came to nepal last year to hike the himalayas .
summit	top	NN	summit	top	8	23	more than 4,000 climbers have climbed the 29,035-foot summit since 1953 .	more than 4,000 climbers have climbed the 29,035-foot mountain since new zealand climber edmund hillary and his sherpa guide tenzing norgay reached the top of everest in 1953 .
reach	get	VB	reach	get	7	7	hundreds of climbers have died attempting to reach the top .	hundreds of climbers have died trying to get to the top .
sacred	holy	JJ	sacred	holy	10	6	nepalese who consider the mountain they call sagarmatha to be sacred sometimes attribute climbing deaths to bad karma earned through disrespecting the mountain .	they consider the mountain to be holy .
information	material	NN	information	material	1	13	the information comes from the dna of millions of tiny organisms embedded in the ancient dental plaque of four medieval skeletons .	these clues come from the dna of millions of tiny bacteria and plant material embedded in the teeth of four 1,000-year-old skeletons .
study	paper	NN	study	paper	9	9	matthew collins of the university of york co-wrote the study .	matthew collins of the university of york co-wrote the paper .
remain	stay	VBP	remain	stay	10	7	and when we die , these dense , calcified micro-fossils remain intact , even as most of the rest of us decomposes .	and when we die , these micro-fossils stay whole , even as most of the rest of us breaks down .
tremendous	huge	JJ	tremendous	huge	12	12	but recently , it has become clear that calcified plaque contains a tremendous amount of information .	but recently , it has become clear that fossilized plaque holds a huge amount of information .
nutrition	food	NN	nutrition	food	12	11	washington on thursday the obama administration proposed the first major revamp of nutrition labels in more than two decades .	washington on thursday the government proposed a change to the way food is labeled .
differentiate	distinguish	VB	differentiate	distinguish	14	14	the updated label would also include a separate entry in the sugar section to differentiate between added sugar and natural sugar .	the updated labels would also include a separate entry in the sugar section to distinguish between added sugar and natural sugar .
decrease	cut	VB	decrease	cut	13	7	administration officials said that would help consumers comply with dietary guidelines recommending americans decrease added sugar intake .	government officials said that would help shoppers cut down on added sugar .
revise	change	VB	revise	change	5	5	the fda proposal would also revise serving sizes to reflect the most recent data on consumer habits .	the fda proposal would also change serving sizes to reflect the most recent information on consumer habits .
single-cell	single	JJ	single-cell	single	11	14	but it 's hard to get them to lie flat in single-cell layers , put them precisely where you want and do so efficiently .	but it 's hard to get the cells to lie flat in layers of single cells .
hard	difficult	JJ	hard	difficult	3	3	but it 's hard to get them to lie flat in single-cell layers , put them precisely where you want and do so efficiently .	it 's also difficult to put them precisely where scientists want and do so efficiently .
process	method	NN	process	method	5	6	they found that the new process could be done as quickly as in half an hour and with close to 100 percent of cells surviving undamaged .	scientists found that the block-cell printing method they created could be done in as quickly as half an hour .
employment	work	NN	employment	work	16	17	he left small-town georgia for better opportunities in the atlanta area , but again found menial employment .	he left small-town georgia for better opportunities in the atlanta area , but again found only low-paying work .
standard	regular	JJ	standard	regular	7	4	though it had the look of a standard street sign , it offered no instructions on parking , driving or walking .	it looked like a regular street sign , but there were no instructions on parking , driving or walking .
standard	normal	JJ	standard	normal	7	4	though it had the look of a standard street sign , it offered no instructions on parking , driving or walking .	it looked like a normal street sign .
regular	normal	JJ	regular	normal	4	4	it looked like a regular street sign , but there were no instructions on parking , driving or walking .	it looked like a normal street sign .
lyric	song	NN	lyric	song	5	8	instead it displayed a rap lyric that made reference to the very spot castillo had just blown past .	instead , it displayed words to a rap song talking about the very spot castillo had just blown past .
submit	send	VB	submit	send	20	9	however , an essay-writing test still will be offered , and many colleges may demand that applicants take it and submit the score .	many colleges may tell students to take it and send in the score if they want to get into the school .
learn	teach	VB	learn	teach	17	4	by studying how the conditions of life came together on our planet , scientists believe we will learn what to look for on other planets .	scientists believe it will teach us what to look for on other planets .
confirm	prove	VB	confirm	prove	15	15	the valley team used a new technique called atom-probe tomography , which allowed them to confirm the accuracy of the crystal 's age .	the valley team used a new method called atom-probe tomography , which allowed them to prove the accuracy of the crystal 's age .
rate	speed	NN	rate	speed	6	6	the uranium decays at a set rate , forming lead .	the uranium decays at a predictable speed .
calculate	determine	VB	calculate	determine	19	6	because of these characteristics , scientists can use the lead and any remaining uranium in a zircon crystal to calculate the age .	because of this , scientists can determine the age of zircon by measuring the lead and any remaining uranium .
determine	calculate	VB	determine	calculate	6	6	because of this , scientists can determine the age of zircon by measuring the lead and any remaining uranium .	because of this , scientists can calculate the zircon 's age .
collision	crash	NN	collision	crash	3	3	dust from the collision merged to form the moon .	dust from the crash fused together to form the moon .
far	yet	RB	far	yet	6	0	although minerals also were formed as far back in history , what makes zircon so valuable to geologists is its ability to endure .	yet , what makes zircon so valuable to scientists is its ability to endure .
endure	last	VB	endure	last	22	13	although minerals also were formed as far back in history , what makes zircon so valuable to geologists is its ability to endure .	yet , what makes zircon so valuable to scientists is its ability to last for so long .
light	daylight	NN	light	daylight	8	7	huddled below deck , the deportees saw the light of day only when a hatch door was opened to dump a dead woman overboard , he recalled .	huddled below deck , the deportees saw daylight only when a door was opened to dump a dead woman overboard .
regard	see	VB	regard	see	18	17	some articles describe mcfadden as having been '' abandoned '' in the orphanage , but she does n't regard the experience that way .	some describe mcfadden as having been '' abandoned '' in the orphanage , but she does n't see things that way .
devoid	free	JJ	devoid	free	6	6	she wanted their reunion to be devoid of guilt .	she wanted their reunion to be free of feelings of guilt .
study	survey	NN	study	survey	15	8	yet fewer than 2 percent of the surveyed adults realized this , according to the study .	yet almost none of the adults in the survey realized this .
front-loading	front	NN	front-loading	front	15	8	while a standard top-loading washer will use about 34 gallons per load , a high-efficiency front-loading clothes washer will use less than 15 gallons .	but , a washer that opens from the front will use less than 15 gallons .
realize	make	VB	realize	make	3	10	people do n't realize how much water is in the different foods that we eat , attari said .	people have no idea how much water it takes to make the different foods that we eat , attari said .
image	picture	NN	image	picture	13	8	for this study , fretwell and his colleagues purchased a single , massive image taken in september 2012 by the worldview2 satellite .	fretwell and his fellow scientists purchased a huge picture taken in september 2012 by the worldview2 satellite .
actually	really	RB	actually	really	7	7	what looks like a single whale could actually be a mother whale with a calf .	what looks like a single whale could really be a mother whale with a baby .
identify	spot	VB	identify	spot	12	12	new satellites will have higher quality imagery and will allow scientists to identify whales with greater confidence , fretwell and his coauthors write .	new satellites will take higher quality pictures and will allow scientists to spot whales with greater confidence , the paper said .
hot	sexy	JJ	hot	sexy	20	11	new york just weeks after barbie appeared in the sports illustrated swimsuit issue , america 's top doll is in hot water again .	new york a few weeks ago , barbie appeared in a sexy bathing suit in sports illustrated 's swimsuit issue .
drive	campaign	NN	drive	campaign	16	7	on thursday , two consumer advocacy groups often critical of corporate advertising tactics launched a petition drive urging the girl scouts of the usa to end the partnership .	on thursday , two groups started a campaign to get the girl scouts of the usa to end the partnership .
exchange	return	NN	exchange	return	1	1	in exchange , the girl scouts will get a barbie activity book and a special barbie website .	in return , the girl scouts get a barbie activity book .
appeal	request	NN	appeal	request	13	10	the girl scouts ' national headquarters in new york rejected the groups ' appeal .	the girl scouts ' national headquarters rejected the groups ' request .
gold-letter	gold	NN	gold-letter	gold	15	10	that 's the essence of the barbie uniform patch a bright pink oval with a gold-letter slogan stitched on it : '' be anything .	the barbie uniform patch is a bright pink oval with gold letters .
block	stop	VB	block	stop	4	4	it also has helped block proposed state laws that would have allowed advertising on school buses .	it also has helped stop proposed state laws that would have allowed advertising on school buses .
least	slightest	JJS	least	slightest	7	11	the bottom group , which expressed the least pleasure in music , also exhibited the least emotional response .	those who expressed the least pleasure in music also exhibited the slightest emotional response when listening .
slightest	least	JJS	slightest	least	11	6	those who expressed the least pleasure in music also exhibited the slightest emotional response when listening .	those who said they took the least pleasure in music also showed the least emotion , or feelings , when listening .
deficit	inability	NN	deficit	inability	17	7	others , particularly those with depressive disorders and neurodegenerative diseases , suffer from general anhedonia a pronounced deficit in experiencing pleasure from widely different stimuli .	others suffer from general anhedonia a pronounced inability to experience pleasure .
component	aspect	NN	component	aspect	4	4	anhedonia is a key component of major depressive disorders , and is common among those with parkinson 's disease .	anhedonia is a key aspect of major depressive disorders , and is common among those with parkinson 's disease .
visit	trip	NN	visit	trip	17	9	mexico city eric garcetti was the second spanish-speaking la mayor in a row to make an official visit to the mexican capital .	mexico city the mayor of los angeles made a trip to mexico on march 2 .
chat	talk	VB	chat	talk	16	7	it so happened that the mexican media was just as eager as his hometown voters to chat him up .	the mexican press was very eager to talk to him .
inaugurate	open	VB	inaugurate	open	7	7	on wednesday , he was scheduled to inaugurate a new exchange program between loyola marymount university and the autonomous technological institute of mexico .	on wednesday , he was scheduled to open a new exchange program between loyola marymount university and the technological institute of mexico .
buy	pay	VB	buy	pay	15	8	jones relies on donations to send team members to performances across the country and to buy costumes , drums and meals on the road .	jones relies on people giving money to help pay for what the team needs .
place	space	NN	place	space	2	1	practices take place in the abandoned water tower , which is warm and dry but has a moldy ceiling .	the space is warm and dry but has a moldy ceiling .
space	room	NN	space	room	4	4	there is n't enough space for the entire team about 320 members so jones staggers practice , holding it four nights a week for different troupes .	there is n't enough room for the entire team , which has about 320 members .
flee	leave	VBP	flee	leave	18	14	months ago , people warned him not to invest his time and money in a place where tourists flee in the fall .	people warned hunt not to open a gas station in a place where tourists leave in the fall .
clog	block	VBP	clog	block	3	3	miles of cars clog local route 13 , causing visitors to wait hours to be shuttled to the lake .	miles of cars block local route 13 , forcing visitors to wait hours to be shuttled to the lake .
route	road	NN	route	road	5	6	miles of cars clog local route 13 , causing visitors to wait hours to be shuttled to the lake .	miles of cars block the local road .
block	prevent	VB	block	prevent	4	8	the move would initially block availability on streaming services such as spotify or beats music , according to several people familiar with the matter .	at least at first , the move would prevent people from hearing the new releases through streaming services such as spotify or beats music .
prevent	keep	VB	prevent	keep	8	3	at least at first , the move would prevent people from hearing the new releases through streaming services such as spotify or beats music .	its plan would keep people from listening to new music through streaming services , such as spotify , at least at first .
retain	keep	VB	retain	keep	15	24	apple 's push for a new release window shows the tech giant is scrambling to retain its competitive advantage in a changing digital music market .	the digital market is changing , they say , and apple 's push for the release window shows the tech giant is scrambling to keep its advantage .
streaming	stream	NN	streaming	stream	16	11	nowadays , about 48 percent of smartphone owners use their phones every day to listen to streaming music .	about half of smartphone owners use their phone every day to stream music .
manufacturer	company	NN	manufacturer	company	5	8	apple remains the single largest manufacturer of smartphones , but it only makes the iphone .	apple makes the most smartphones of any one company , but it only makes the iphone .
retailer	seller	NN	retailer	seller	20	18	as consumers gravitate to google-powered smartphones , they lose access to the world 's biggest and most widely recognized music retailer , apple 's itunes .	as consumers switch to android phones , they ca n't use itunes , the world 's biggest music seller .
bid	attempt	NN	bid	attempt	16	16	apple has been meeting with major label executives , and approaching individual artists , in a bid to secure exclusivity to bolster sales .	apple has been meeting with major label executives , and approaching individual artists , in an attempt to get exclusive music releases .
buttress	support	VB	buttress	support	14	6	though few artists enjoy the popularity of beyonce , apple uses the example to buttress its argument that withholding albums from streaming services can spur sales .	but apple uses the example to support its argument that withholding albums from streaming services can increase music sales .
feeding	eating	NN	feeding	eating	6	6	even after a month of normal feeding , this alpaca is still so thin that her spine is showing .	even after a month of normal eating , this alpaca is so thin that her spine is showing .
gloomy	sad	JJ	gloomy	sad	5	5	rain increased the number of gloomy posts .	rain increased the number of sad posts .
scrutinize	examine	VB	scrutinize	examine	14	12	although lyons said he has n't had the time or supplemental information necessary to scrutinize the statistical methods of the current paper , he remained skeptical .	lyons said he has n't had the time or information necessary to examine the methods of the current paper , but remained skeptical .
prior	previous	JJ	prior	previous	1	1	this prior research has argued that emotions play a special role in bonding , and that humans are naturally inclined toward expressing their emotions rather than concealing them .	this previous research has argued that emotions play a special role in bonding .
impassioned	passionate	JJ	impassioned	passionate	5	5	the decision came after an impassioned and at times highly personal debate at the city council .	the decision came after a passionate and at times highly personal debate at the city council .
jetliner	plane	NN	jetliner	plane	6	5	kuala lumpur , malaysia the malaysian jetliner that has been missing for more than a week was diverted from its path on purpose .	kuala lumpur , malaysia a plane headed from malaysia to china has been missing for more than a week .
communication	contact	NN	communication	contact	11	7	experts have previously said that whoever took down the plane 's communication systems and then flew the jet must have had a lot of technical knowledge .	experts have said that whoever cut off contact must have known a lot about planes .
route	path	NN	route	path	18	14	britain-based aviation security consultant chris yates thought it was highly unlikely the plane would have taken the northern route across land in asia .	aviation security expert chris yates said it was highly unlikely the plane took the path across asia .
news	information	NN	news	information	12	11	in the chinese capital , relatives of passengers who have anxiously awaited news at a hotel near beijing 's airport said they felt deceived .	in the chinese capital , relatives of passengers have waited for information .
respectable	decent	JJ	respectable	decent	5	5	both have been described as respectable , community-minded men .	both have been described as decent , community-minded men .
height	peak	NN	height	peak	2	15	at its height , the mongol empire stretched from eastern asia to eastern europe , as well as parts of northern india and the mideast .	the mongol empire stretched from eastern asia to eastern europe when it was at its peak .
severely	badly	RB	severely	badly	8	6	the researchers said that because the trees are severely water stressed , they are especially sensitive to changes in the weather .	the trees in this field are badly in need of water .
narrative	story	NN	narrative	story	7	7	they also found evidence of a climate narrative that they could n't ignore .	they also found evidence of a climate story that they could n't ignore .
expansion	spread	NN	expansion	spread	8	8	those samples confirmed the initial findings : the expansion of the mongol empire coincided with what the trees recorded as a warmer and wetter climate than usual .	those samples confirmed the initial findings : the spread of the mongol empire corresponded with what the trees recorded as a warmer and wetter climate than usual .
part	room	NN	part	room	13	5	the library is calling it '' digital commons , '' and it 's part computer lab , part design center and part reading lounge .	it 's also part reading room .
retrieval	research	NN	retrieval	research	12	6	virtual stacks enable students to check out books from a unique robotic retrieval system known as a bookbot that delivers them in five minutes or less .	that leaves lots of space for research and study groups .
express	say	VB	express	say	4	8	years later , to express its appreciation , the navajo nation built jones a house .	years later , the navajo nation decided to say thanks : it built jones a house .
antique	ancient	JJ	antique	ancient	21	6	these days the 89-year-old jones struggles to keep warm during winter because the only heat inside his house emanates from an antique wood stove in the living room .	his only heat comes from the ancient wood stove in the living room .
antique	old	JJ	antique	old	21	6	these days the 89-year-old jones struggles to keep warm during winter because the only heat inside his house emanates from an antique wood stove in the living room .	his only heat comes from an old wood stove in the living room .
ancient	old	JJ	ancient	old	6	6	his only heat comes from the ancient wood stove in the living room .	his only heat comes from an old wood stove in the living room .
aim	goal	NN	aim	goal	1	1	the aim was to provide houses free of charge to veterans in need or help them pay for home repairs .	the goal was to provide free houses to veterans in need .
pressure	push	NN	pressure	push	4	4	etta arviso works to pressure leaders to provide housing for several code talkers .	etta arviso is trying push for better housing for several code talkers .
portion	part	NN	portion	part	2	2	a good portion of that time was spent on the front lines , including at iwo jima .	a good part of that time was spent in heavy fighting , including at iwo jima .
disease	illness	NN	disease	illness	2	2	studying the disease required a lot of help from scientists , including her father .	studying the illness required help from scientists .
laboratory	lab	NN	laboratory	lab	14	6	during her second year in high school , she had an internship at a laboratory studying another type of cancer .	she had an internship at a lab studying another kind of cancer .
analyze	examine	VB	analyze	examine	19	6	finally , samples trickled in , and sanford simon said his daughter was back on the computer helping to analyze what was different in the tumor cells .	sanford simon said his daughter helped examine what was different in the tumor cells with a computer .
abnormal	unusual	JJ	abnormal	unusual	12	7	sanford simon said other researchers then conducted laboratory experiments to show the abnormal protein really is active inside tumor cells .	sanford simon said other researchers showed the unusual protein really is active inside tumor cells .
geopolitical	geo-political	JJ	geopolitical	geo-political	12	8	putin once called the end of the soviet union '' the biggest geopolitical catastrophe '' of the 20th century .	putin once called that event '' the biggest geo-political catastrophe '' of the 20th century .
canvas	painting	NN	canvas	painting	14	11	despite claims made and repeated for decades , pollock did not paint the epic canvas in one great , glorious burst of nonstop creative fervor .	for years it has been claimed that pollock painted the giant painting in one glorious burst of creativity .
hall	gallery	NN	hall	gallery	17	0	collector and art dealer peggy guggenheim commissioned the mural in the summer of 1943 for the entry hall of her east 61st street manhattan townhouse .	gallery owner peggy guggenheim asked pollock to paint the work in the summer of 1943 .
painting	paint	NN	painting	paint	9	11	pollock did lay out an initial overall composition , painting wet-on-wet in diluted , high-quality oils of teal , lemon yellow , red and umber .	pollock did lay out an initial overall composition , layering wet paint on top of wet paint .
virility	masculinity	NN	virility	masculinity	15	16	the heroic myth of one brilliant , all-night painting campaign propped up an image of virility .	the heroic myth of one brilliant , all-night painting campaign propped up an image of forceful masculinity and helped fight off the doubts and rumors .
rigorously	carefully	RB	rigorously	carefully	9	1	for despite pollock 's well-documented psychological problems , the rigorously constructed painting shows an artist who knew what he was about .	the carefully constructed painting shows us that pollock knew exactly what he was aiming for .
perhaps	probably	RB	perhaps	probably	16	5	one is a rock that seems to contain part of a sea lion 's mouth , perhaps 2 million years old .	one is a rock that probably contains a 2-million-year-old sea lion 's tooth .
range	variety	NN	range	variety	9	12	materials from the upper 40 feet of the shaft range from modern era to 50,000 years old .	materials from the upper 40 feet of the shaft are from a variety of ages .
excavate	dig	VB	excavate	dig	3	3	they will then excavate an additional 2 feet to pour a concrete slab floor , said mark bray , resident engineer .	they will then dig an additional 2 feet to pour a floor of concrete .
point	spot	NN	point	spot	2	13	at some point years hence , commuters will walk through the subterranean station , unaware that they 're surrounded by the remnants of a distant sea .	years from now , a new subway station will open in this very spot .
point	time	NN	point	time	2	13	at some point years hence , commuters will walk through the subterranean station , unaware that they 're surrounded by the remnants of a distant sea .	few will realize that they 're surrounded by the remains of a distant time .
greatest	biggest	JJS	greatest	biggest	6	15	for participants who have taken the greatest steps toward self-discovery , trombetti presents a large , hand-carved , redwood acorn .	trombetti presents a large , hand-carved , redwood acorn to participants who have taken the biggest steps .
biggest	greatest	JJS	biggest	greatest	15	11	trombetti presents a large , hand-carved , redwood acorn to participants who have taken the biggest steps .	trombetti gives tribal members with drug problems who have made the greatest steps forward a large , hand-carved , redwood acorn .
sober	sober-living	JJ	sober	sober-living	8	19	she keeps it on the dresser in the sober living home she is managing in crescent city .	alvarado is one of just two to receive an acorn , which she keeps on the dresser in the sober-living home she is managing in crescent city .
sober-living	sober	JJ	sober-living	sober	19	8	alvarado is one of just two to receive an acorn , which she keeps on the dresser in the sober-living home she is managing in crescent city .	she keeps it on the dresser in the sober living home she is managing in crescent city .
get	find	VB	get	find	10	7	she snoops with aunts and uncles of court participants to get the lowdown on how they 're really doing .	she pores over county jail logs to find people who need help .
identify	find	VB	identify	find	7	7	she pores over county jail logs to identify those who need help .	she pores over county jail logs to find people who need help .
legislation	act	NN	legislation	act	6	6	washington it took decades , congressional legislation and a review of thousands of war records .	washington it took decades , an act of congress and a review of thousands of war records .
decoration	award	NN	decoration	award	15	14	the review turned up other recipients of the distinguished service cross , the second-highest military decoration .	the review turned up recipients of the distinguished service cross , the second-highest military award .
unit	group	NN	unit	group	23	5	he telephoned morris , 72 , who was one of the nation 's first members of the green berets , a special forces unit that handles difficult missions .	the berets are a small group of special forces .
outcome	conclusion	NN	outcome	conclusion	2	5	such an outcome , while considered unlikely by many experts , would certainly torment the families of those missing .	although considered unlikely , that conclusion would certainly torment the families of those missing .
flight	plane	NN	flight	plane	10	1	a gps system might not have solved the mystery of flight 370 , which disappeared march 8 while flying from kuala lumpur , malaysia , to beijing .	the plane disappeared march 8 while flying from kuala lumpur , malaysia , to china 's capital beijing .
monitor	track	VBP	monitor	track	19	16	experts say the plane 's disappearance will likely put pressure on airlines and governments to improve the way they monitor planes , including handoff procedures between countries .	experts say the plane 's disappearance will likely pressure airlines and governments to improve how they track the location of planes .
area	part	NN	area	part	4	12	studies have indicated the area is no more dangerous than any other stretch of ocean .	studies show the bermuda triangle is no more dangerous than any other part of the ocean .
sensation	feeling	NN	sensation	feeling	11	12	but when pale sores erupted on his body and he lost sensation in his fingertips , a doctor issued the devastating diagnosis : yadav had leprosy .	then pale sores started showing up on his body and he lost feeling in his fingertips .
devastating	terrible	JJ	devastating	terrible	20	5	but when pale sores erupted on his body and he lost sensation in his fingertips , a doctor issued the devastating diagnosis : yadav had leprosy .	a doctor told him the terrible news : yadav had leprosy .
regularly	often	RB	regularly	often	1	1	employers regularly turn away people who have had the disease , even if they 've been treated and cured .	bosses often fire workers who have had the disease , even if they are cured .
hereditary	genetic	JJ	hereditary	genetic	12	12	health workers are trying to spread the word that leprosy is not hereditary and does not spread through normal contact .	health workers are trying to spread the word that leprosy is not genetic and does not spread through normal contact .
get	receive	VBP	get	receive	20	21	venugopal has been working with non-governmental agencies to lobby the government to expand the disability allowances that some leprosy survivors get .	venugopal has been working with non-governmental agencies to ask the government to raise the amount of money that some leprosy survivors receive .
come	become	VB	come	become	13	13	but even with the help of dad , noah will likely have to come by his fortune some other way .	but even with the help of dad , noah will likely have to become a millionaire some other way .
event	case	NN	event	case	4	1	in the somewhat unlikely event that someone survives two rounds , the odds diminish to 1 in 32,000 .	in case someone survives two rounds , the odds are 1 in 32,000 .
fabric	cloth	NN	fabric	cloth	9	7	dhaka , bangladesh mukhta mollah deftly smooths the red fabric and guides it through a whirling sewing machine .	dhaka , bangladesh mukhta mollah pushes red cloth through a sewing machine .
reach	make	VB	reach	make	12	10	on this day , like every workday , she will try to reach a target of 1,000 blouses .	today , like every day , she will try to make 1,000 shirts .
grateful	thankful	JJ	grateful	thankful	3	3	but she 's grateful that her small salary has allowed her to escape her home village .	but she 's thankful that the money she makes has allowed her to escape her home village .
flee	escape	VB	flee	escape	13	13	six months earlier , a factory fire killed 112 people who could not flee because their bosses had locked the doors to keep them working .	six months earlier , a factory fire killed 112 people who could not escape because their bosses had locked the doors to keep them working .
unmarried	single	JJ	unmarried	single	11	13	it 's just not a proper place for a young , unmarried woman to be , they lecture .	others scold her , saying that it is not proper for a young single woman to work alongside men .
perish	die	VB	perish	die	22	22	residents would have as few as 15 minutes ' notice to flee to higher ground , and as many as 10,000 would perish .	residents would have as few as 15 minutes ' notice to flee to higher ground , and as many as 10,000 would die .
quake	earthquake	NN	quake	earthquake	2	6	sunday 's quake , which erupted 50 miles off the coast , caused light to moderate shaking .	on march 16 , a small earthquake caused by the cascadia fault erupted 50 miles off the coast , causing light shaking .
tract	gut	NN	tract	gut	25	20	what they found was that after cocoa was '' digested , '' long molecules called polyphenolic polymers remained within the gastrointestinal , or gi , tract .	what they found was that after cocoa was '' digested , '' long molecules called polyphenolic polymers remained within the gut .
inhabit	live	VBP	inhabit	live	11	13	that is until they encounter some of the many microbes that inhabit the human colon , particularly bifidobacterium and lactic acid bacteria , researchers said .	that is , until they run into some of the many microbes that live in the human colon : in particular , certain types of bacteria .
debate	talk	VB	debate	talk	3	3	we can still debate the wisdom of going to war there .	we can still talk about the wisdom of going to war there .
imminent	immediate	JJ	imminent	immediate	5	5	it assumes that once the imminent threat of the collapse of the regime has passed , it 's ok to head for the exit .	it assumes that once the immediate threat of the collapse of the regime has passed , it 's ok to head for the exit .
fight	war	NN	fight	war	20	14	that 's not to say that the united states should plan major , unending commitments to a country after a fight .	the united states should n't plan to stay in a country forever after a war .
retain	maintain	VB	retain	maintain	15	15	it is fatuous to argue that the white house could not have gotten permission to retain a residual force there .	it is absurd to argue that the white house could not have gotten permission to maintain a small force there it simply did n't want to .
absurd	silly	JJ	absurd	silly	2	2	it is absurd to argue that the white house could not have gotten permission to retain a small force there it simply did n't want to .	it is silly to argue that the white house could not have gotten permission to keep a small force there .
ever	still	RB	ever	still	10	9	the haqqani network of islamic fighters is as robust as ever and al-qaida is waiting in the wings to attack .	in certain areas of pakistan , the taliban can still operate freely .
narco-trade	trade	NN	narco-trade	trade	1	2	the narco-trade that fuels the insurgency remains robust as well .	the drug trade that funds the rebels remains robust as well .
difficult	easy	JJ	difficult	easy	3	4	what was not difficult to see in iraq was the likelihood that any new government there would be dominated by the majority shiite community .	it should have been easy to see in iraq that any new government there would be led by the shiite community .
party	group	NN	party	group	15	16	in afghanistan , we removed a government headed by the taliban , an extreme religious party .	in afghanistan , we removed a government headed by the taliban , an extreme religious political group .
reality	situation	NN	reality	situation	8	8	now we have to live with the political reality in both iraq and in afghanistan .	now we have to live with the political situation in both iraq and in afghanistan .
level	amount	NN	level	amount	23	22	both the national pta and the national education association favor the rule-of-thumb limiting homework in all subjects to 10 minutes times the grade level .	the national parent-teacher association and the national education association are in agreement when it comes to how much homework is the right amount .
vary	differ	VB	vary	differ	6	5	the actual amount of homework can vary widely .	the amount of homework can differ widely from school to school , though .
though	however	RB	though	however	12	0	the amount of homework can differ widely from school to school , though .	however , the amount of homework can be very different from school to school .
homework	schoolwork	NN	homework	schoolwork	18	17	she said her phone is off , her computer is off except for research and she even does homework while she eats dinner .	she said her phone is off , and her computer is off unless she needs it for schoolwork .
recession	downturn	NN	recession	downturn	14	16	higher than the 34 percent who lived at home in 2009 , when the recession officially ended .	higher even than the 34 percent who lived at home in 2009 , when the economic downturn officially ended .
fiscally	financially	RB	fiscally	financially	2	5	cautious , fiscally responsible celebration , but celebration nonetheless .	it is a cautious , financially responsible celebration , but a celebration nonetheless .
sluggish	slow	JJ	sluggish	slow	6	6	this is partly because of a sluggish economy and partly because millennials are holding out hope for fulfilling work , experts say .	this is partly because of a slow economy and partly because millennials are hoping for fulfilling work , experts say .
indicate	point	VBP	indicate	point	2	2	all signs indicate a generation doing it their way and it 's not necessarily the wrong way .	all signs point to a generation doing it their own way , and it may be the right way .
point	indicate	VBP	point	indicate	2	2	all signs point to a generation doing it their own way , and it may be the right way .	all signs indicate a generation doing it their own way .
get	find	VBP	get	find	5	1	also , most young adults get jobs and move out within six months to a year .	they find jobs and move out .
downpour	rain	NN	downpour	rain	11	11	a small mountain of cardboard boxes , falling apart in the downpour .	a small mountain of cardboard boxes was falling apart in the rain .
canvas	cloth	NN	canvas	cloth	14	14	once they were settled , jenkins circled the trailer , pausing to tuck a canvas flap back into place .	once they were settled , jenkins circled the trailer , pausing to tuck a cloth flap back into place .
gig	job	NN	gig	job	11	11	but then the california science center hired jenkins for one more gig : overseeing the creation of its shuttle display .	but then the california science center hired jenkins for one more job .
education	study	NN	education	study	5	1	the racial disparities in american education were highlighted in a report released friday by the education department 's civil rights arm .	a study looking at racial differences in schools was released friday .
explain	say	VB	explain	say	4	4	the data does n't explain why the disparities exist or why the students were suspended .	and it does n't say why the students were suspended .
greater	bigger	JJR	greater	bigger	5	5	the numbers might even be greater , a tragedy for a country where once nearly all school-age children completed primary school .	the numbers might even be bigger , a tragedy for a country where once nearly all children completed elementary school .
malnutrition	nutrition	NN	malnutrition	nutrition	0	1	malnutrition and illness stunts their growth ; a lack of schooling derails their education ; and the bloody trauma of war sears deep psychological scars .	poor nutrition and illness stunt their growth ; a lack of schooling derails their education ; and the haunting images of war leave deep psychological scars .
nutrition	malnutrition	NN	nutrition	malnutrition	1	0	poor nutrition and illness stunt their growth ; a lack of schooling derails their education ; and the haunting images of war leave deep psychological scars .	malnutrition and illness prevents them from growing ; a lack of schooling stops their education ; and the bloody war causes deep psychological scars .
leave	go	VBP	leave	go	22	1	poor nutrition and illness stunt their growth ; a lack of schooling derails their education ; and the haunting images of war leave deep psychological scars .	they go hungry and get sick , which slows their growth ; a lack of schooling stops their education ; and the bloody war causes deep psychological scars .
structure	shape	NN	structure	shape	11	11	and now thanks to glimpse360 , scientists can easily examine the structure of the milky way , said astronomer edward churchwell .	thanks to glimpse360 , scientists can now easily examine the overall shape of the milky way .
location	position	NN	location	position	2	1	the general location of stars in the galaxy also is now visible .	the position of the stars in our galaxy is now visible .
coloring	color	NN	coloring	color	19	13	in the existing scientific view , they are microscopic remains of ancient pigment granules , or bits of animal coloring .	most paleontologists think the blobs on the feathers are super small bits of color .
reaction	response	NN	reaction	response	8	8	the study has prompted a heated social media reaction from one researcher who favors the interpretation that the shapes are melanosomes , or pigment granules .	the study has prompted a heated social media response from one researcher who favors the interpretation that the shapes are melanosomes , or pigment granules .
long	much	RB	long	much	14	11	shawkey argues that the bacteria on the chicken feathers are actually four times as long as the impressions in the archaeopteryx feathers .	shawkey argues that the bacteria on the chicken feathers are actually much bigger .
small	young	JJ	small	young	16	11	on a recent afternoon , cesar rincon watched a tienta from a viewing area above a small ring at the historic achury viejo bull ranch .	on a recent afternoon , cesar rincon watched a test of young bulls and cows at the historic achury viejo bull ranch .
human	human-like	JJ	human	human-like	10	11	like others , he claims when cartoons began to give human traits to animals , people began to treat them as human beings .	he and others say that when cartoons began drawing animals with human-like looks and personalities , people began to treat them as humans .
bullfighting	bullfighter	NN	bullfighting	bullfighter	13	6	libardo was voted colombia 's best matador this year but believes colombia 's bullfighting future is uncertain .	he was voted colombia 's best bullfighter this year .
nobody	none	NN	nobody	none	2	2	wood said nobody was warned that a huge mudslide could happen .	wood said none of the homeowners were warned that a huge mudslide was possible .
water	river	NN	water	river	8	9	eventually , the toe would fail from the water eating away at it , and gravity would pull the hillside down .	the '' toe '' hangs down close to the river .
flood	flooding	NN	flood	flooding	16	9	stevenson said county officials who approved development seemed more focused on whether the homes were in flood areas than on the risk of a landslide .	stevenson said county officials were more concerned with possible flooding in the area .
dad	father	NN	dad	father	0	1	dad was like , we 're going to be fine , ' and i just believed him , '' she said .	her father said they would be fine , '' and i just believed him , '' she said .
harvest	fish	NN	harvest	fish	10	10	he was up early , ready to head out and harvest spring herring in prince william sound .	he was up early , ready to head out and fish for herring in prince william sound .
vital	essential	JJ	vital	essential	3	3	it 's a vital species for the ecosystem , giving protein to whales , salmon , birds and others .	it 's an essential species for the ecosystem .
important	essential	JJ	important	essential	4	3	it 's an extremely important species for the ecosystem , giving food and protein to whales , salmon , birds and others .	it 's an essential species for the ecosystem .
flourishing	booming	JJ	flourishing	booming	7	7	prince william sound was home to a flourishing spring herring fishery .	prince william sound was home to a booming spring herring fishery .
vulnerable	weak	JJ	vulnerable	weak	22	22	the reasons are a subject of intense debate , with suggestions that the effects of the spill could have made the herring vulnerable to disease .	the reasons are a subject of intense debate , with suggestions that the effects of the spill could have made the herring weak against disease .
share	percentage	NN	share	percentage	6	6	during the same time , the share of preteens who drank milk three times or more a day dropped from 31 percent to 18 percent .	during the same time , the percentage of preteens who drank milk three times or more a day dropped from 31 percent to 18 percent .
brainchild	invention	NN	brainchild	invention	4	4	the company is the brainchild of a husband-and-wife team who own a dairy farm in northwest indiana .	the company is the invention of a husband-and-wife team who own a dairy farm in northwestern indiana .
undetected	undetectable	JJ	undetected	undetectable	18	17	built to haul more than 20 tons of bombs , it is a huge plane that flies virtually undetected by radar .	it is a huge plane that can carry more than 20 tons of bombs and is almost undetectable by radar .
reference	refer	VB	reference	refer	8	4	a b-2 mechanic has 750 technical manuals to reference to fix the plane .	a b-2 mechanic must refer to 750 technical manuals to fix the plane .
tough	tough-sounding	JJ	tough	tough-sounding	12	11	team members are known by their derby names , clever wordplay or tough monikers such as regulateher , jackie nimble and cirque d ' slay .	team members are known by their derby names funny puns or tough-sounding nicknames such as regulateher , jackie nimble and cirque d ' slay .
breathtaking	amazing	JJ	breathtaking	amazing	7	10	the view from the basement laboratory is breathtaking .	the scientists in the basement laboratory are looking at an amazing view .
three-dimensional	3-d	JJ	three-dimensional	3-d	5	1	on the screen , a three-dimensional map of a nearby hallway has taken shape .	a 3-d map of a nearby hallway is appearing on the phone 's screen as he walks .
technique	technology	NN	technique	technology	18	19	that would give app developers time to come up with 3-d applications that can take advantage of the technique .	that would give app developers time to come up with 3-d applications that can take advantage of the new technology .
work	book	NN	work	book	1	7	the work in question was written by artillery master franz helm of cologne .	a man named franz helm wrote the book .
manual	book	NN	manual	book	8	7	a weapons master named franz helm wrote the manual .	a man named franz helm wrote the book .
several	many	JJ	several	many	7	7	he was believed to have fought in several conflicts against the turks in south-central europe at a time when gunpowder was changing warfare .	he was believed to have fought in many battles .
warfare	war	NN	warfare	war	16	18	fraas said he could find no evidence that cats and birds were used in early modern warfare in the way prescribed by helm .	but fraas said he could find no evidence that cats and birds were actually used in early modern war to cause harm .
airliner	plane	NN	airliner	plane	18	18	beijing search and rescue teams looking of the missing malaysia airlines plane have found no signs of the airliner only garbage .	beijing search and rescue teams looking for the missing malaysia airlines flight have found no signs of the plane .
plane	flight	NN	plane	flight	11	11	beijing search and rescue teams looking of the missing malaysia airlines plane have found no signs of the airliner only garbage .	beijing search and rescue teams looking for the missing malaysia airlines flight have found no signs of the plane .
far-flung	remote	JJ	far-flung	remote	13	3	the teams have discovered what oceanographers have been warning that even the most far-flung stretches of ocean are full of trash .	even the most remote stretches of the ocean are full of trash .
far-flung	distant	JJ	far-flung	distant	13	3	the teams have discovered what oceanographers have been warning that even the most far-flung stretches of ocean are full of trash .	even the most distant areas of the ocean are full of trash .
remote	distant	JJ	remote	distant	3	3	even the most remote stretches of the ocean are full of trash .	even the most distant areas of the ocean are full of trash .
clear	good	JJ	clear	good	20	17	for the first time since the search focused on the southern indian ocean 10 days ago , the skies were clear and the sea was calm .	for the first time since the search focused on the southern indian ocean , the weather was good .
garbage	junk	NN	garbage	junk	9	10	the objects were described as fishing equipment and other garbage .	the objects were identified as fishing equipment and other sea junk .
flight	aircraft	NN	flight	aircraft	7	10	the boxes record pilots ' conversations and flight data .	the boxes record pilots ' conversations and information from the aircraft such as its speed and direction .
aircraft	flight	NN	aircraft	flight	10	6	the boxes record pilots ' conversations and information from the aircraft such as its speed and direction .	it also records information from the flight such as the speed and direction of the plane .
south	southern	JJ	south	southern	1	1	the south indian ocean is one of the most remote places on the planet , far from any islands , shipping lanes or flight paths .	the southern indian ocean is one of the most remote places on the planet , far from any islands , shipping lanes or flight paths .
assertion	statement	NN	assertion	statement	9	9	chinese families , in particular , have rejected the assertion of the malaysian government that the plane crashed with no survivors .	chinese families , in particular , have rejected the statement of the malaysian government that the plane crashed with no survivors .
usually	often	RB	usually	often	3	4	college recruiting tales usually involve coaches bombarding talented athletes with phone calls , text messages and personal visits .	talented high school athletes often receive many phone calls , text messages and personal visits from interested schools .
much	good	JJ	much	good	6	10	there did n't seem to be much promise in rowing at first , either .	at first , she did n't think she 'd be good at rowing , either .
declare	say	VB	declare	say	17	10	she called it a small , though important , achievement , but still not enough evidence to declare the problem solved .	but the decline in obesity is still not enough to say the problem is solved , she said .
anthropology	anthropologist	NN	anthropology	anthropologist	13	11	that 's not by accident , said brian hare , who teaches evolutionary anthropology at duke university .	that 's not by accident , said brian hare , an anthropologist who studies how dogs have related to humans throughout history .
take	carry	VB	take	carry	4	2	likewise , people can take guns into bars unless the owner objects , into airports up to security screening areas , and into government buildings .	people can carry guns into bars unless the owner says no .
permit	let	VB	permit	let	2	4	it would permit schools to arm staff members and lower the age from 21 to 18 for active members of the military to obtain gun licenses .	the law would also let schools give guns to staff members .
court	course	NN	court	course	12	18	the measure also would offer defendants an '' absolute defense '' in court if a gun is used in the face of a violent attack .	the law also would offer defendants an '' absolute defense '' if a gun is used in the course of a violent attack .
footage	film	NN	footage	film	18	18	in 1944 , she was discovered by the actor walter pidgeon , who visited willow run to shoot footage .	she was discovered in 1944 by the actor walter pidgeon , who visited willow run to shoot a film .
variety	number	NN	variety	number	3	8	she had a variety of jobs before becoming a home builder in the 1970s in southern indiana .	after going back home , she had a number of jobs before she became a home builder in southern indiana .
senior	top	JJ	senior	top	20	20	monroe 's story is inspiring for today 's '' rosies '' at lockheed martin , said gayle roland , a senior procurement manager .	monroe 's story is inspiring for today 's '' rosies '' at lockheed martin , said gayle roland , a top official at the company .
manager	head	NN	manager	head	9	6	among them are lorraine martin , the f-35 program manager in fort worth , and janet nash , vice president for f-35 production .	among them are lorraine martin , head of the f-35 plane program in fort worth .
insight	knowledge	NN	insight	knowledge	12	5	but new clues about other distinctive bones of theirs are giving scientists insight into what caused the woolly mammoth to become extinct roughly 10,000 years ago .	they are giving scientists new knowledge about mammoths ' lives and what made them die off .
develop	grow	VB	develop	grow	10	10	but they tend to appear in animals that failed to develop normally during the early stages of pregnancy , and problems associated with abnormal development can be fatal .	but they mostly show up in animals that did n't grow normally in the womb .
incidence	frequency	NN	incidence	frequency	7	7	there are two explanations for the high incidence of cervical ribs in mammoths , and both are probably part of the story , the researchers wrote .	there are two explanations for the high frequency of cervical ribs in mammoths , and both are probably part of the story , the researchers wrote .
famine	hunger	NN	famine	hunger	9	11	the second is that the mammoths were struggling with famine , disease and other environmental conditions that made it difficult for female mammoths to bear healthy offspring .	the second explanation is that the mammoths were struggling with widespread hunger , disease and other environmental conditions .
almost	nearly	RB	almost	nearly	13	8	she added that a catastrophic event like a fire or a hurricane could almost wipe out the entire species .	a disaster like a fire or hurricane could nearly wipe them all out , she added .
elaborate	complex	JJ	elaborate	complex	9	8	the work going into rescuing panthers can be highly elaborate .	the work going into rescuing panthers can be complex .
require	need	VBP	require	need	2	2	injured panthers require medical treatment .	injured panthers need medical care .
treatment	care	NN	treatment	care	4	4	injured panthers require medical treatment .	injured panthers need medical care .
hostile	unfriendly	JJ	hostile	unfriendly	10	10	but any male released will find himself plopped into a hostile world .	but any male released will find himself dropped into an unfriendly world .
pool	group	NN	pool	group	20	7	but even if only two or three make it , biologists say , they may still contribute to the gene pool .	but every panther that survives helps the group become stronger , biologists say .
massive	gigantic	JJ	massive	gigantic	3	3	da dong 's massive menu may be among the most eye-popping in town , but it 's hardly alone in its heftiness or artistic ambition .	da dong 's gigantic menu may be among the most eye-popping in town , but it 's hardly alone in its big size and fancy design .
gigantic	huge	JJ	gigantic	huge	3	3	da dong 's gigantic menu may be among the most eye-popping in town , but it 's hardly alone in its big size and fancy design .	da dong 's huge menu is among the most eye-popping in town .
cuisine	cooking	NN	cuisine	cooking	14	14	just why chinese menus are growing in girth is a complex question rooted in cuisine , culture and commerce .	just why chinese menus are growing in size is a complicated question rooted in cooking , culture and commerce .
activity	business	NN	activity	business	8	9	it might open the country to private economic activity and perhaps even political freedoms , she said .	it promises to make the country more open to business with other countries .
extremely	greatly	RB	extremely	greatly	7	4	sanchez added that cuban government controls are extremely tight , and the social fabric of the country is damaged after more than 50 years of castro rule .	cuban society has been greatly damaged after more than 50 years of castro rule , she added .
scale	ladder	NN	scale	ladder	6	8	the uppermost teens on the social scale can '' afford '' to be nice .	teens at the very top of the social ladder can '' afford '' to be nice .
adolescent	teenage	JJ	adolescent	teenage	12	12	in addition , the '' drama '' that 's often discussed about adolescent relationships might be taken more seriously by students and parents , he said .	in addition , the '' drama '' that 's often discussed about teenage relationships might be taken more seriously by students and parents , he said .
flee	leave	VB	flee	leave	16	14	she said her mother and other relatives told her the best thing to do was to flee to the united states .	her mother and other relatives told her the best thing to do was to leave home and go to the united states .
send	mail	VB	send	mail	6	6	it costs about $ 250 to send out hard drives .	it costs about $ 250 to mail hard drives .
top	major	JJ	top	major	10	7	about 75 percent of the screens from the nation 's top three exhibitors have the ability to deliver movies and other entertainment via the satellite network .	about 75 percent of the screens from major theater companies can show movies and other entertainment using the satellite network .
costly	expensive	JJ	costly	expensive	7	7	traditionally , it has been difficult and costly for theaters to secure permission from sports leagues to show big games in theaters .	traditionally , it has been difficult and expensive for theaters to get permission from sports leagues to show big games in theaters .
veterinarian	vet	NN	veterinarian	vet	10	14	volunteers feed and trap cats , take them to a veterinarian to be vaccinated and spayed or neutered , then return them to the area where they live .	tnr works like this : people trap cats , then take them to a vet .
say	argue	VBP	say	argue	3	4	tnr , they say , prolongs the suffering of the cats , who can fall victim to cars , predators , disease and human cruelty .	feral cats , they argue , can fall victim to cars , predators , disease and cruel humans .
methodology	way	NN	methodology	way	9	6	cat advocates fiercely dispute those numbers and question the methodology of the study .	cat defenders say those numbers are way off .
become	turn	VB	become	turn	7	7	that would have caused the oceans to become more acidic and the earth to heat up .	that would have caused the oceans to turn to acid .
precisely	specifically	RB	precisely	specifically	12	12	after seeing rothman 's analysis , fournier worked to figure out more precisely when the gene transfer happened .	after seeing rothman 's analysis , fournier worked to figure out more specifically when the gene appeared .
specifically	precisely	RB	specifically	precisely	12	6	after seeing rothman 's analysis , fournier worked to figure out more specifically when the gene appeared .	fournier worked to figure out more precisely when the gene change happened .
precisely	exactly	RB	precisely	exactly	12	4	after seeing rothman 's analysis , fournier worked to figure out more precisely when the gene transfer happened .	fournier worked to figure exactly when the gene change happened .
specifically	exactly	RB	specifically	exactly	12	4	after seeing rothman 's analysis , fournier worked to figure out more specifically when the gene appeared .	fournier worked to figure exactly when the gene change happened .
storage	store	NN	storage	store	8	9	last year , the company created a cloud storage website .	last year , the company created a website to store tryout recordings .
contest	competition	NN	contest	competition	21	10	at age 13 , he sent a recording from an older disklavier in russia to try out for an international music contest based in minnesota .	then he sent it to try out for a music competition in minnesota .
prospective	potential	JJ	prospective	potential	17	16	the school is wrestling with a decision on whether to use it as a way to audition prospective music students .	the school is wrestling with a decision on whether to use it as a way for potential music students to try out .
precise	accurate	JJ	precise	accurate	12	5	the disklavier is a conventional piano that has been wired with extremely precise sensors to measure the movement of its mechanical parts .	disklaviers are wired with extremely accurate sensors to measure the movement of its parts .
velocity	speed	NN	velocity	speed	8	8	a yamaha sensor can measure and record the velocity of that hammer at 1,023 different increments , and store the result as computer data .	a yamaha sensor can measure and record the speed of that hammer at 1,023 different levels , and stores the result as numbers in a computer .
hallway	hall	NN	hallway	hall	3	2	down a narrow hallway , in a room decorated with an old blue couch , his wife , veronika , was finishing a lesson with 92-year-old emily gaughenbaugh .	down the hall , his wife , veronika , was finishing a lesson with 92-year-old emily gaughenbaugh .
never	always	RB	never	always	12	12	but in certain pockets of la 's accordion culture , sexiness was never a struggle .	but in certain pockets of la 's culture , the instrument was always cool .
logic	sense	NN	logic	sense	11	11	from an economic standpoint , chinese investment in farmland has impeccable logic .	from an economic standpoint , chinese investment in farmland makes perfect sense .
impeccable	perfect	JJ	impeccable	perfect	10	10	from an economic standpoint , chinese investment in farmland has impeccable logic .	from an economic standpoint , chinese investment in farmland makes perfect sense .
standpoint	view	NN	standpoint	view	3	13	from an economic standpoint , chinese investment in farmland has impeccable logic .	chinese interest in overseas farmland makes perfect sense from an economic point of view .
arable	agricultural	JJ	arable	agricultural	20	17	one oft-cited statistic is that china has 20 percent of the world 's population and just 9 percent of its arable land .	china has 20 percent of the world 's population , but just 9 percent of its usable agricultural land .
land	farmland	NN	land	farmland	21	10	one oft-cited statistic is that china has 20 percent of the world 's population and just 9 percent of its arable land .	however , it has less than one-tenth of its usable farmland .
frequent	common	JJ	frequent	common	3	2	china suffers from frequent droughts and desertification .	droughts are common , and much of the land is gradually becoming desert .
result	produce	NN	result	produce	9	15	from exploding watermelons to cadmium-tainted rice , both the result of excessive fertilization , domestic food scandals have made foreign-grown foods more popular in china .	a series of food scandals has made foreign-grown foods more popular in china than homegrown produce .
chinese-led	chinese	JJ	chinese-led	chinese	4	4	in australia , a chinese-led group of companies acquired a sprawling 200,000-acre cotton plantation , said to have the largest irrigation system in the southern hemisphere .	in australia , a chinese company has taken over a huge 200,000-acre cotton plantation .
contentious	controversial	JJ	contentious	controversial	3	3	these investments are contentious both at home and abroad .	these investments are controversial both at home and abroad .
arrangement	agreement	NN	arrangement	agreement	1	16	the arrangement , however , has proceeded but with a far smaller amount of land being farmed under a 50-year lease .	however , a much smaller amount of land is being farmed , under a 50-year rental agreement .
frequent	regular	JJ	frequent	regular	14	15	yet , its lush lawns are modeled on those of rain-soaked england and require frequent watering .	yet , its lush lawns are modeled on those of rain-soaked england , and require regular watering .
consumption	use	NN	consumption	use	10	9	cities across the region now require homeowners to cut water consumption by 20 percent or more .	cities throughout california now require homeowners to cut water use by 20 percent or more .
turf	grass	NN	turf	grass	13	6	the program pays $ 1 a square foot to homeowners to replace irrigated turf with drought-tolerant plants , up to $ 1,000 per household .	the program pays homeowners to remove grass .
medium	average	JJ	medium	average	11	8	a 1,500-square-foot lawn surrounded by 375 feet of plants that require medium amounts of water uses requires 45,653 gallons per year , brown estimated .	a typical lawn featuring grass and plants on average needs 45,653 gallons per year , brown estimated .
corporation	company	NN	corporation	company	17	4	mcdonald 's has responded repeatedly to previous protests that it takes all complaints seriously and that the corporation and its independent franchise operations are committed to comprehensive investigations .	it said that the company and the owners of its restaurants are committed to comprehensive investigations .
make	develop	VB	make	develop	17	13	the space agency asked the institute of medicine -lrb- iom -rrb- to offer guidelines to help nasa make such health decisions as it ventures into this unknown territory .	the space agency asked the institute of medicine -lrb- iom -rrb- to help develop a set of guidelines for venturing into this unknown territory .
set	group	NN	set	group	15	10	the space agency asked the institute of medicine -lrb- iom -rrb- to help develop a set of guidelines for venturing into this unknown territory .	to make decisions about the risks , nasa asked a group of doctors to develop guidelines .
transparent	open	JJ	transparent	open	3	3	operate in a transparent and accountable way , and keep astronauts informed of the risks they face .	operate in an open and accountable way , and keep astronauts informed of the risks they face .
significant	great	JJ	significant	great	12	12	in spaceflight , there always has been and will continue to be significant risk , the authors pointed out .	in spaceflight , there always has been and will continue to be great risk , the authors pointed out .
dark-skinned	dark	JJ	dark-skinned	dark	14	2	but then brumfield passed around a picture of lupita nyong ' o , the dark-skinned actress who wears her hair extra-short .	she has dark skin .
tutsis	tutsi	NN	tutsis	tutsus	18	19	and a generation of young people who grew up after the mass killings identify not as hutus or tutsis , but as rwandans .	a generation of young people who grew up after the mass killings do n't see themselves as hutu or tutsi .
hutus	hutu	NN	hutus	hutu	16	17	and a generation of young people who grew up after the mass killings identify not as hutus or tutsis , but as rwandans .	a generation of young people who grew up after the mass killings do n't see themselves as hutu or tutsi .
intervene	step	VB	intervene	step	5	6	western powers did not to intervene .	western powers did not try to step in .
brainchild	idea	NN	brainchild	idea	4	4	the project is the brainchild of mayor akira sugenoya , a medical doctor who performed more than 100 thyroid-cancer surgeries in neighboring belarus after the 1986 chernobyl catastrophe .	the project is the idea of matsumoto 's mayor , akira sugenoya , who is also a doctor .
radioactivity	radiation	NN	radioactivity	radiation	11	5	like many near the fukushima plant , hashimoto routinely measured the radioactivity in her neighborhood .	yukie hashimoto routinely measured the radiation in her neighborhood .
rigorous	thorough	JJ	rigorous	thorough	13	14	but some experts say the higher cases are merely a result of more rigorous checking .	still , some experts say the higher cases are merely a result of more thorough checking .
gymnasium	gym	NN	gymnasium	gym	14	11	last friday , she looked very much at home as she sat in the gymnasium decorated with flowers at aida junior high school for a school opening ceremony .	last friday , she looked happy as she sat in the gym at aida junior high school .
visit	see	VB	visit	see	22	6	chicago for people who do n't live in the south side neighborhood of washington park , there are n't many reasons to visit garfield boulevard .	chicago there is n't much to see on east garfield boulevard .
many	much	JJ	many	much	19	4	chicago for people who do n't live in the south side neighborhood of washington park , there are n't many reasons to visit garfield boulevard .	chicago there is n't much to see on east garfield boulevard .
neighborhood	area	NN	neighborhood	area	24	9	none of the 13 presidential libraries and museums administered by the national archives and records administration has been built in a low-income , inner-city neighborhood .	no presidential library has been built in a low-income area before .
available	possible	JJ	available	possible	7	7	brown had his graduate students judge the available sites for the library in chicago .	brown had his graduate students examine the possible sites for the library in chicago .
feed	food	NN	feed	food	18	18	the chimps were lured with fruit and greens such as carrots , celery and lettuce , their usual feed .	the chimps were lured with fruit and greens such as carrots , celery and lettuce , their usual food .
reluctant	unwilling	JJ	reluctant	unwilling	4	6	but for the last reluctant animal , zookeepers brought out a bag of malted milk balls .	one chimp , though , was unwilling to go back , so zookeepers brought out a bag of malted milk balls .
respectfully	politely	RB	respectfully	politely	2	2	zoo employees respectfully explained the emergency , she said , and gave them several free zoo passes .	zoo workers politely explained the emergency , she said , and gave them several free zoo passes .
weary	tired	JJ	weary	tired	3	3	although she grew weary of the heavy smell of animal feed , she appreciated the eight free zoo passes given to her .	although she grew tired of the smell of animal feed , she appreciated the eight free zoo passes given to her .
casing	case	NN	casing	case	7	5	it even came with a purple protective casing and loaded with kids ' applications and games .	it came with a purple case to protect it .
specifically	especially	RB	specifically	especially	16	12	for instance , babyfirst has co-developed a series called '' albert &amp; amp ; junior '' specifically for use on fuhu 's tablets .	its new series '' albert &amp; amp ; junior '' was designed especially for fuhu 's tablets .
school	study	NN	school	study	25	10	researcher manny sethi , a trauma surgeon and a vanderbilt professor , said it may be necessary to teach those problem-solving skills before the high school years .	vanderbilt professor and surgeon manny sethi was involved with the study .
volatile	explosive	JJ	volatile	explosive	17	17	before the study , the students completed questionnaires regarding their beliefs about violence and ability to manage volatile situations .	before the study , the students completed questionnaires regarding their beliefs about violence and ability to manage explosive situations .
milestone	breakthrough	NN	milestone	breakthrough	9	9	time magazine and the new york times noted the milestone .	time magazine and the new york times noted the breakthrough .
correspondent	reporter	NN	correspondent	reporter	13	13	mcalpin '' ever so politely declined the offer , '' said white house correspondent george condon .	mcalpin '' ever so politely declined the offer , '' said white house reporter george condon .
challenge	obstacle	NN	challenge	obstacle	4	3	discrimination was a persistent challenge for mcalpin , his son said .	discrimination was an obstacle for mcalpin , his son said .
obstacle	challenge	NN	obstacle	challenge	3	4	discrimination was an obstacle for mcalpin , his son said .	discrimination was always a challenge for mcalpin , his son said .
journalist	journalism	NN	journalist	journalism	7	9	the elder mcalpin wanted to be a journalist and study at the university of missouri , but he was barred because of his race .	as a young man , mcalpin hoped to study journalism at the university of missouri , but he was barred because of his race .
ensue	follow	VB	ensue	follow	26	26	his father told him he was warned that at the white house news conference '' someone might step on your foot '' and a row would ensue .	his father told him he was warned that at the white house news conference '' someone might step on your foot '' and a scuffle would follow .
association	organization	NN	association	organization	5	1	the white house correspondents ' association , which served as the gatekeeper to the events , denied entreaties from black publications , often responding with nothing but silence .	the organization denied entreaties from black publications , often responding with nothing but silence .
fire	gunfire	NN	fire	gunfire	12	11	the family went to sleep that night to the sound of machine-gun fire and the occasional rocket .	the family went to sleep that night to the sound of gunfire and rockets .
carnage	massacre	NN	carnage	massacre	14	14	with the blood fresh on the pavement , motorists stopped and peered at the carnage .	with the blood fresh on the pavement , motorists stopped and peered at the massacre .
pavement	sidewalk	NN	pavement	sidewalk	6	6	with the blood fresh on the pavement , motorists stopped and peered at the carnage .	with the blood fresh on the sidewalk , motorists stopped and peered at the deadly damage .
vendor	seller	NN	vendor	seller	6	6	men bought produce from a fruit vendor , the color of the oranges bright against the gray of fallen concrete .	men bought produce from a fruit seller , the color of the oranges bright against the gray of fallen concrete .
journey	way	NN	journey	way	4	2	the yearlong 4,250 mile journey along the world 's longest river will see the former british army captain pass through six countries .	along the way , the onetime british army captain will pass through six countries .
heavy	serious	JJ	heavy	serious	12	2	the nile passes through jonglei state , a region that has seen heavy fighting in recent months .	there are serious safety concerns for this part of the trip : the nile passes through jonglei state .
oppression	tyranny	NN	oppression	tyranny	16	16	they 're a connection to her heritage and proof that tradition can triumph over hardship and oppression .	they 're a connection to her roots and proof that tradition can triumph over hardship and tyranny .
form	way	NN	form	way	5	1	the resilience of the art form amazes kap .	the way pysanky-making has lasted so long amazes kap .
various	several	JJ	various	several	13	5	the eggs are dyed in progressive stages , and wax is applied at various points to prevent coloring in certain parts of the eggshell .	the eggs are dyed in several stages , and wax is applied to prevent coloring in certain parts of the eggshell .
cover	protect	VB	cover	protect	13	21	after each dip into a jar of dye , kap uses wax to cover the areas she wants to remain that color .	after each dip into a jar of dye , kap applies wax to parts of the egg that she wants to protect from the next dye .
reveal	expose	VB	reveal	expose	16	16	after the final dye bath , she melts off the wax with a candle flame to reveal the multicolored design underneath .	after the final dye bath , she melts off the wax with a candle flame to expose the multicolored design underneath .
final	last	JJ	final	last	2	2	after the final dye bath , she melts off the wax with a candle flame to reveal the multicolored design underneath .	after the last dyeing , she melts off the wax .
complete	finish	VB	complete	finish	12	9	a single egg might take three to five hours of work to complete , but she does n't work on just one egg at a time .	a single egg takes three to five hours to finish .
adorn	decorate	VB	adorn	decorate	4	4	people sometimes suggest she adorn her eggs with additions like rhinestones or glitter , she said , but she 's adamant about sticking with the old ways .	people sometimes suggest she decorate her eggs with additions like rhinestones or glitter , she said .
monarch	butterfly	NN	monarch	butterfly	4	3	scientists say mexico 's monarch butterfly colonies as many as several million butterflies in one acre are on the cusp of disappearing .	scientists say these butterfly groups may soon disappear .
identify	recognize	VB	identify	recognize	19	13	if the species were to vanish , a beloved insect with powerhouse stamina that most school kids can easily identify would be gone .	the orange-and-black monarch butterfly is a popular insect that most school kids can recognize .
big	main	JJ	big	main	6	6	but scientists are focusing on one big one : monarch butterflies ca n't live without a plant called milkweed .	but they are focusing on one main reason : the butterflies ca n't live without a plant called milkweed .
employ	use	VBP	employ	use	2	2	now farmers employ glyphosate herbicides , such as monsanto 's roundup , that kill weeds with a vengeance .	now farmers use a herbicide that kill weeds with a vengeance .
find	get	VB	find	get	6	6	there are several places you can find free milkweed seeds .	there are many places you can get free milkweed seeds .
galerie	gallery	NN	galerie	gallery	7	9	they were at a table at the galerie michael on rodeo drive in the heart of beverly hills on wednesday afternoon .	they were seated at a table in an art gallery in the heart of beverly hills .
pitch-black	black	JJ	pitch-black	black	6	7	while it 's combing through the pitch-black waters , the bluefin-21 uses sonar to gather data that will yield a high-resolution , 3-d map of the seafloor .	the water it combs through is pitch black .
deploy	send	VB	deploy	send	15	12	searchers operating more than 1,300 miles off the western coast of australia had waited to deploy the sub .	searchers 1,300 miles off the western coast of australia had waited to send out the sub .
sub	submarine	NN	sub	submarine	17	17	searchers operating more than 1,300 miles off the western coast of australia had waited to deploy the sub .	the searchers 1,300 miles off the western coast of australia waited 38 days to send out the submarine .
tell	mean	VB	tell	mean	10	6	an a-plus in reading , for instance , wo n't tell parents how well their child can pronounce words with silent letters , she believes .	an a-plus in reading does n't mean a child can pronounce words with silent letters .
county	district	NN	county	district	15	8	with special permission from the school board , she is the only one in lake county to do so .	she is the only teacher in the school district who does ' t give grades .
usually	typically	RB	usually	typically	5	7	he said teachers like barrett usually end up evaluating students more than teachers in typical classrooms .	he said teachers who do n't grade typically end up knowing how their students are doing more than teachers in regular classrooms .
education	teaching	NN	education	teaching	8	5	barrett has a master 's degree in early-childhood education and is constantly tweaking the class .	barrett is constantly adjusting her teaching based on how students are doing .
capable	able	JJ	capable	able	14	14	her students enter the class at or above grade level and finish second grade capable of reading fourth-grade-level books , she said .	her students enter the class at or above grade level and finish second grade able to read fourth-grade-level books , she said .
able	capable	JJ	able	capable	14	4	her students enter the class at or above grade level and finish second grade able to read fourth-grade-level books , she said .	they finish second grade capable of reading fourth-grade-level books , she said .
old-fashioned	old	JJ	old-fashioned	old	14	5	he lugs a typewriter to school every day and does just about everything the old-fashioned way .	he brings a big , old typewriter to school every day .
monitor	watch	VBP	monitor	watch	4	5	she and others who monitor human rights worry about foreign governments watching them .	she and others who carefully watch human rights worry about governments in other countries spying on them .
race	course	NN	race	course	8	3	kenya 's rita jeptoo won the women 's race in a course-record 2 hours , 18 minutes , 57 seconds , defending a championship from last year .	she completed the course in a record 2 hours , 18 minutes , 57 seconds .
death	execution	NN	death	execution	15	14	dzhokhar tsarnaev , 20 , is awaiting trial in the attack and could get the death penalty .	dzhokhar tsarnaev , 20 , is awaiting trial in the attack and could face execution .
previous	old	JJ	previous	old	15	6	one name that wo n't be considered : atlanta chiefs , the name of two previous teams that played in the old north american soccer league .	that 's the name of two old teams that ended up closing .
match	game	NN	match	game	22	15	the city has a large hispanic population and last month drew more than 68,000 fans to the georgia dome for a friendly match between mexico and nigeria .	last month thousands of fans went to the georgia dome in atlanta to watch a game between mexico and nigeria .
soccer	football	NN	soccer	football	15	8	the stands along the sideline will have the capability to retract , accommodating the larger soccer pitch while maintaining sightlines .	the soccer field will be larger than the football field , so the stands along the sideline can be moved back .
training	train	NN	training	train	10	12	he will also be exploring possible locations for a state-of-the-art training facility .	he will also be looking for a place for the team to train .
ground	place	NN	ground	place	11	7	he will also be exploring possible locations for a state-of-the-art training ground .	he will also be looking for a place for the team to train .
hearing	meeting	NN	hearing	meeting	10	12	kavanaugh and about 30 of her fifth-grade students attended a hearing wednesday on a bill that would outlaw corporal punishment in the state .	recently , kavanaugh and about 30 of her fifth-grade students attended a meeting .
ban	outlaw	VB	ban	outlaw	5	4	the most recent states to ban it were new mexico , in 2011 , and ohio , in 2009 .	the latest states to outlaw it were new mexico in 2011 and ohio in 2009 .
attach	give	VB	attach	give	8	14	researchers hope they will soon be able to attach even more body parts .	scientists hope they will soon be able to make even more body parts and give them to people who need them .
foster	support	VB	foster	support	9	13	it aims to attract companies to the area to foster collaboration and promote research and manufacturing .	the country wants to attract companies to the area for collaboration and to support research and manufacturing .
foster	encourage	VB	foster	encourage	9	10	it aims to attract companies to the area to foster collaboration and promote research and manufacturing .	the country aims to attract companies to the area to encourage collaboration .
support	encourage	VB	support	encourage	13	10	the country wants to attract companies to the area for collaboration and to support research and manufacturing .	the country aims to attract companies to the area to encourage collaboration .
synthetic	artificial	JJ	synthetic	artificial	9	10	she added they plan to eventually create an entirely synthetic face but must first prove their polymer scaffolds wo n't accidentally burst out of the skin .	she added that the team plans to create an entirely artificial face .
painful	difficult	JJ	painful	difficult	5	9	it would not only answer painful questions about her past but help australians understand one of the ugliest chapters of their history .	it also helped australians understand one of the most difficult parts of their own history .
uncertain	unknown	JJ	uncertain	unknown	14	21	because the government did not record aboriginal births , her exact birth date was uncertain ; she was later issued one : july 1 , 1937 .	doris was born in 1937 , but because the government did not record aboriginal births , her exact birth date is unknown .
native	aboriginal	JJ	native	aboriginal	10	7	at moore river , doris was beaten for speaking her native mardudjara language .	there she was beaten for speaking her aboriginal language .
regulation	law	NN	regulation	law	9	7	they were there in droves to protest a government regulation that keeps the 19-screen multiplex closed each week from sundown friday to sundown saturday .	they were there to protest a government law that keeps the theater closed each week during the jewish sabbath , which runs from sundown friday to sundown saturday .
cinema	movie	NN	cinema	movie	8	6	the crowd was at the grand opening of cinema city to protest a law that keeps theaters closed each week during the jewish sabbath .	jerusalem the crowd at the new movie theater did n't come to see a film .
essentially	mainly	RB	essentially	mainly	4	7	mostly jewish west jerusalem essentially shuts down every friday afternoon , in keeping with orthodox strictures that prohibit observant jews from working on the sabbath .	most of west jerusalem , which is mainly jewish , shuts down every friday afternoon .
assume	guess	VB	assume	guess	14	14	but after finding the earth-like planet known as kepler-186f , it seems reasonable to assume '' that other ones are likely to exist .	but after finding the earth-like planet known as kepler-186f , it seems reasonable to guess '' that other ones are likely to exist .
enable	let	VB	enable	let	10	4	future nasa missions like the james webb space telescope will enable scientists to determine which planets have the strongest signs of water and life-friendly atmospheres .	future nasa missions may let scientists add to the list of potentially habitable planets .
quest	search	NN	quest	search	7	7	the discovery marks a milestone in the quest to find planets that are not just earth-size , but truly earth-like , said nasa 's doug hudgins .	the discovery marks a breakthrough in the search for planets that are not just earth-size , but truly earth-like .
freeze	deep-freeze	NN	freeze	deep-freeze	25	13	in such regions , it 's neither so hot that water boils off into space nor so cold that it remains in a permanent deep freeze .	it 's also not so cold that it would remain in a permanent deep-freeze .
find	spot	VB	find	spot	15	8	that 's an encouraging sentiment , given that planets like kepler-186f could be easier to find than planets exactly like earth .	this is because m-dwarf planets are easier to spot than planets that orbit larger stars .
fundamental	key	JJ	fundamental	key	17	16	in that context , kepler-186f is a sign that scientists are homing in on the answers to fundamental questions about life in the universe .	the discovery of kepler-186f is a sign that scientists are homing in on the answers to key questions about life in the universe .
nationwide	national	JJ	nationwide	national	1	1	the nationwide tests for 10th - and 12th-graders are called board exams .	the national tests for 10th - and 12th-graders are called board exams .
throw	toss	VB	throw	toss	10	4	when the inspectors arrived , the staff members tried to throw the evidence out the window .	the workers tried to toss the evidence out the window .
distraught	upset	JJ	distraught	upset	0	0	distraught , he doused himself with kerosene and set himself on fire in the family kitchen .	upset , he doused himself with kerosene , a type of fuel , and set himself on fire in the family kitchen , dying the next day .
skeptical	doubtful	JJ	skeptical	doubtful	3	3	veteran teachers remain skeptical , saying that school principals often are reluctant to report cheating for fear of damaging their reputations .	veteran teachers remain doubtful , saying that school principals often are reluctant to report cheating for fear of damaging their reputations .
game	sport	NN	game	sport	4	7	it 's a fierce game with metal-on-metal and sometimes skin-on-floor contact .	they were playing wheelchair rugby , a sport that was once called murderball because of its violent nature .
fierce	violent	JJ	fierce	violent	3	16	it 's a fierce game with metal-on-metal and sometimes skin-on-floor contact .	they were playing wheelchair rugby , a sport that was once called murderball because of its violent nature .
accident	crash	NN	accident	crash	11	11	in high school , adam sweeney was injured in a car accident that killed his brother .	in high school , adam sweeney was hurt in a car crash .
diving	dive	NN	diving	dive	9	6	yianni thallas was about 20 when he got hurt diving off a roof into a pool .	yianni thallas got hurt trying to dive into a pool from a roof .
teen	teenager	NN	teen	teenager	5	5	stephen zuravel was just a teen when he was severely injured in a one-car accident .	stephen zuravel was only a teenager when he was severely injured in a one-car accident .
teenager	teen	NN	teenager	teen	5	5	stephen zuravel was only a teenager when he was severely injured in a one-car accident .	stephen zuravel was just a teen when he was severely injured in a one-car accident .
summit	peak	NN	summit	peak	6	6	most attempts to reach everest 's summit are made in mid-may , when a brief window normally offers better weather .	most attempts to reach everest 's peak are made in mid-may .
glacier	ice	NN	glacier	ice	10	9	friday 's avalanche was triggered when a massive piece of glacier fell from the mountain .	friday 's avalanche happened when a huge piece of ice fell from the mountain .
lay	place	VB	lay	place	4	6	they need sherpas to lay miles of rope , carve steps in the ice and snow , and carry nearly all the climbers ' equipment .	that means sherpas are needed to place miles of rope and carve steps in the ice and snow .
put	give	VB	put	give	9	6	on tuesday , the nepalese government said it would put 5 percent of the everest climbing fees into the fund to help sherpas who are killed or injured .	the nepalese government said it would give 5 percent of the money it gets from everest climbers to help sherpas who are killed or injured .
vision	sight	NN	vision	sight	10	5	with the owners out of the cats ' line of vision , researchers first played recordings of three strangers calling the cats ' names .	with the owners out of sight , researchers first played recordings of three strangers calling the cats ' names .
consequently	thus	RB	consequently	thus	12	12	they were not domesticated to work with people as dogs were and consequently feel themselves our equals .	they were not domesticated to work with people as dogs were and thus feel themselves our equals .
respond	react	VBP	respond	react	2	2	and we respond as quickly to loud vocalizations of their demands as we do to a crying baby who needs a diaper change .	and we react as quickly to their meows as we do to a crying baby .
whale	whaling	NN	whale	whaling	3	6	he is a whale hunter and a proud defender of the ancient trade , which is on the verge of disappearing .	he is a proud defender of whaling , which is close to disappearing .
resistance	opposition	NN	resistance	opposition	12	14	even before this season 's so-far failed hunt , there 's been resistance to bequia 's 139-year tradition from fellow islanders , environmentalists and marine mammal scientists .	even before this season 's failed hunt , there 's been a lot of opposition to whaling .
whaling	whale	NN	whaling	whale	16	9	today , whalers argue fiercely over claims to the kill , and chaos erupts at the whaling station where the meat is sold .	today , whalers often fight over who killed a whale .
whaling	hunting	NN	whaling	hunting	5	11	in 2012 , the international whaling commission renewed bequia 's whaling quota for six years .	in 2012 , the international whaling commission said bequia could continue hunting whales for six more years .
hunting	hunt	NN	hunting	hunt	11	10	in 2012 , the international whaling commission said bequia could continue hunting whales for six more years .	in 2012 , the international whaling commission said bequia can hunt whales for six more years .
mammoth	huge	JJ	mammoth	huge	5	5	back at the beach , mammoth whale jawbones serve as stair rails leading to the bay .	back at the beach , huge whale bones serve as stair rails leading to the water .
prime	main	JJ	prime	main	3	17	the crabs ' prime mating season is now underway in florida and the government is asking the public for help studying them .	in florida , the government is now asking the public for help studying the crabs during their main mating season .
spawn	breed	VBP	spawn	breed	2	2	the crabs spawn year-round in florida , although their prime season occurs between march and may .	the crabs breed year-round in florida .
symposium	conference	NN	symposium	conference	1	1	the symposium , called '' tiananmen at 25 , '' is free and open to the public .	the conference , called '' tiananmen at 25 , '' is free and open to the public .
massacre	killing	NN	massacre	killing	11	12	it gathers some of the world 's top experts on the massacre and kicks off what promises to be a season of international remembrance .	it gathers some of the world 's top experts on the mass killing and kicks off what promises to be a season of international remembrance .
dim	dark	JJ	dim	dark	14	15	before the sun has risen , sami is pushing a dented wheelbarrow through the dim streets .	before the sun has even risen , sami is pushing a dented wheelbarrow through the dark streets .
aroma	smell	NN	aroma	smell	2	2	the sweet aroma of fresh bread wafts through the cramped storefront .	the sweet smell of fresh bread wafts through the cramped storefront .
construction	building	NN	construction	building	13	13	children as young as 6 work in brick making , carpet weaving , construction , mining and farming .	children as young as 6 work in brick making , carpet weaving , building and farming .
modern-day	modern	JJ	modern-day	modern	3	3	it took a modern-day , multimedia artist and self-professed warhol fanatic to finally get the ball rolling .	it took a modern artist to finally get the ball rolling .
work	artwork	NN	work	artwork	18	10	the show 's curator , tina kukielski , asked him if he had any ideas for any pittsburgh-focused work .	he was asked if he had any ideas for an artwork about pittsburgh .
salt	saltwater	NN	salt	saltwater	14	2	the fresh water from the rivers must continue to flow into the ocean or salt water from the ocean will flow into the delta .	otherwise , saltwater from the ocean will flow into the area .
salt	salty	NN	salt	salty	1	6	if salt water flows into the delta , that would spoil the water for people , farms and wildlife .	it would make the delta water salty .
habitat	environment	NN	habitat	environment	15	3	keeping that water in storage would be a hedge against continued drought , but both habitat and farmers downstream would suffer without the water , opponents say .	but both the environment and farmers downstream would suffer without the water , opponents say .
ingenuity	cleverness	NN	ingenuity	cleverness	9	9	the state-controlled media regularly praise the virtues of cuban ingenuity .	the state-controlled media regularly praise the virtues of cuban cleverness .
risky	dangerous	JJ	risky	dangerous	8	5	some of the inventions are clearly more than risky .	some of the inventions are dangerous .
electrical	electric	JJ	electrical	electric	1	6	bare electrical wires connected to cans or short pieces of pipe were used as water heaters for showers .	they heated water for showers with electric wires connected to cans .
give	provide	VB	give	provide	1	1	to give light when the electricity failed , a wick was pushed through a tube of toothpaste and set in a jar of kerosene .	to provide light when the electricity failed , a wick was pushed through a tube of toothpaste and set in a jar of kerosene .
landfill	dump	NN	landfill	dump	6	6	most of the crowd left the landfill before the discovery , turned away by strong winds that kicked up massive clouds of dust mingled with garbage .	most of the crowd left the dump before the discovery .
large	huge	JJ	large	huge	18	13	he is a city official who back in 1983 got a tip from a landfill employee about the large amount of games buried there .	back in 1983 he got a tip from a landfill employee about the huge dumping of games .
demise	downfall	NN	demise	downfall	7	7	the game and its contribution to the demise of atari have been the source of fascination for video game enthusiasts for 30 years .	the game and its contribution to the downfall of atari have been the source of fascination for video game enthusiasts for 30 years .
significant	important	JJ	significant	important	9	9	the outcome of the two cases could be very significant for both police and phone users .	the outcome of the two cases could be very important .
invaluable	valuable	JJ	invaluable	valuable	12	13	law enforcement officials , in turn , fear they might lose an invaluable investigative tool .	law enforcement officials , in turn , fear they might lose an extremely valuable investigative tool .
relevant	related	JJ	relevant	related	9	12	the searches are supposed to be for weapons or relevant evidence .	the searches are supposed to be for weapons or for evidence directly related to the arrest .
horsepower	power	NN	horsepower	power	3	13	it has less horsepower than a lawn mower .	philadelphia its top speed is 35 miles per hour and it has less power than a lawn mower .
slim	narrow	JJ	slim	narrow	1	1	the slim , three-wheeled vehicle is headed to houston this week .	the narrow , three-wheeled vehicle is headed to houston this week .
running	race	NN	running	race	6	7	some of the cars in the running can achieve thousands yes , thousands of miles per gallon of gasoline .	some of the cars entered in the race can achieve thousands yes , thousands of miles per gallon of gasoline .
chassis	frame	NN	chassis	frame	16	17	swarthmore graduate eric verhasselt started building the school 's car in 2012 , welding the aluminum chassis in the summer before his senior year .	swarthmore graduate eric verhasselt started building the school 's car in 2012 , and welded its aluminum frame in the summer before his senior year .
efficiency	performance	NN	efficiency	performance	19	19	he helped verhasselt with the initial design , and now is tweaking and testing the car to maximize its efficiency .	he helped verhasselt with the initial design , and now is tweaking and testing the car to maximize its performance .
pressing	immediate	JJ	pressing	immediate	9	9	one day last week , macfarland had a more pressing concern : the car would not start .	one day last week , macfarland had a more immediate concern : the car would n't start .
limelight	spotlight	NN	limelight	spotlight	11	11	now , it 's about to get its time in the limelight .	now , it 's about to get its time in the spotlight .
enthusiast	lover	NN	enthusiast	lover	7	7	matthew zaklad is another $ 2 bill enthusiast .	matthew zaklad is another $ 2 bill lover .
terrain	soil	NN	terrain	soil	19	4	chicago for the past 10 months , geologist erin argyilan has studied sediment , analyzed wind patterns and mapped terrain .	she has looked at soil .
additionally	also	RB	additionally	also	0	1	additionally , marshes serve as filters that keep poisons from draining to the bay .	marshes also stop poisons from draining to the bay .
strategy	approach	NN	strategy	approach	1	1	their strategy combines more traditional population management techniques with geographic information systems , gps and mapping technology that kendrot says sets the program apart .	their approach uses geographic information systems , gps and mapping technology that kendrot says sets the program apart .
thing	something	NN	thing	something	13	12	the swim team was largely white , and he wanted to do the thing people least expected a punjabi student to do .	the swim team was largely white , and he wanted to do something people least expected a punjabi student to do : he made the team .
physician	doctor	NN	physician	doctor	12	12	he plans to go to school someday and study to become a physician .	bhatti plans to go to a university and study to become a doctor .
intention	plan	NN	intention	plan	11	12	borders says he does n't go into a piece with any intention ; he lets the design guide him and is frequently surprised by the results .	borders says he does n't go into an artwork with any set plan .
experiment	attempt	NN	experiment	attempt	16	16	they were brought to northern arizona more than 100 years ago , as part of an experiment to mix bison and cattle .	they were brought to northern arizona more than 100 years ago , as part of an attempt to mate bison with cattle .
part	area	NN	part	area	13	5	they were brought to northern arizona more than 100 years ago , as part of an experiment to mix bison and cattle .	they were brought to the area more than 100 years ago .
allow	make	VB	allow	make	6	6	both crowd out native animals and allow soil to wash away .	they crowd out other animals and make soil wash away .
move	go	VB	move	go	6	6	she said the park workers should move the bison so far from the park that they ca n't wander back .	she said the bison need to go so far away that they ca n't wander back .
roughly	nearly	RB	roughly	nearly	8	7	in the canary islands , the snakes are roughly 30 percent larger than their wild counterparts in southern california .	the snakes in the canary islands are nearly one third larger than wild kingsnakes living in southern california .
arid	dry	JJ	arid	dry	13	8	the united arab emirates is a country known for its flashy hotels , arid deserts and the world 's 7th biggest oil reserves .	it is known for its flashy hotels and dry deserts .
exhibit	exhibition	NN	exhibit	exhibition	1	7	the exhibit curator compared the abu dhabi of today to the united states of the early 20th century .	vincent pomerade , the curator of the exhibition , compared abu dhabi today to the united states in the early 20th century .
lull	calm	NN	lull	calm	3	6	with sunday 's lull , a few people appeared in the streets , looking to see which shops were open .	with sunday 's small wave of calm , a few people appeared in the streets , looking to see which shops were open .
troop	army	NN	troop	army	22	2	the blockade will continue to prevent the rebels from sneaking out of slovyansk or getting reinforcements and weapons supplies , a ukrainian troop commander said .	a ukrainian army official said they will continue to prevent the pro-russia supporters from sneaking out of slovyansk .
immediate	urgent	JJ	immediate	urgent	3	4	obama said the immediate priority is finding the girls , but that the boko haram group must also be dealt with .	obama said the most urgent goal is finding the girls .
secondary	high	JJ	secondary	high	13	15	nigeria 's police have said more than 300 girls were abducted from their secondary school in the country 's remote northeast .	nigeria 's police have said more than 300 girls were taken by force from their high school in the country 's remote northeast .
address	deal	VB	address	deal	13	10	a smaller group of mostly male senators urged nigerian president goodluck jonathan to address the root causes of unrest in his country .	a smaller group of senators urged the nigerian president to deal with the problems in his country .
abduction	kidnapping	NN	abduction	kidnapping	14	14	nigeria 's islamic extremist leader , abubakar shekau , has claimed responsibility for the abduction and has threatened to sell the girls .	nigeria 's islamic extremist leader , abubakar shekau , has claimed responsibility for the kidnapping and has threatened to sell the girls .
abduct	kidnap	VB	abduct	kidnap	11	11	shekau also warned that boko haram will attack more schools and abduct more girls .	shekau also warned that boko haram will attack more schools and kidnap more girls .
motivate	inspire	VB	motivate	inspire	9	9	it 's part of a movement that aims to motivate kids through familiar and beloved technology .	it 's part of a movement that aims to inspire kids through familiar and beloved technology .
beloved	well-loved	JJ	beloved	well-loved	14	14	it 's part of a movement that aims to motivate kids through familiar and beloved technology .	it 's part of a movement that aims to inspire kids through familiar and well-loved technology .
good	much	JJ	good	much	4	2	that 's a pretty good summation of the recipe that has helped '' minecraft '' catch on at hundreds of schools worldwide .	that pretty much sums up why '' minecraft '' has caught on at hundreds of schools worldwide .
hair	hairstyle	NN	hair	hairstyle	11	6	so , four years ago , she figured that changing her hair to a more natural style would make her a better soldier .	so , she figured a natural hairstyle would make her a better soldier .
ban	outlaw	VBP	ban	outlaw	3	2	the rules specifically ban certain hairstyles , including twists , large cornrow braids and dreadlocks , popular among black women .	the rules outlaw certain hairstyles .
cancel	reverse	VB	cancel	reverse	13	10	jacobs , who wears two-strand twists , launched a white house petition to cancel the ban .	jacobs , 25 , launched a white house petition to reverse the rule .
coincide	come	VBP	coincide	come	3	3	the new regulations coincide with the army 's efforts to reduce its numbers from 520,000 to as few as 440,000 service men and women .	the new rules come at a time that the army is trying to reduce the number of soldiers from 520,000 to 440,000 .
reconsider	rethink	VB	reconsider	rethink	10	10	however , on tuesday , hagel directed the military to reconsider the new policies .	however , on tuesday , hagel directed the military to rethink the new policies .
staff	team	NN	staff	team	11	9	he thanked each of his teammates , the coaches , support staff and team executives , and finally his family .	he thanked his coaches , his trainers , the team 's owners and he thanked his family .
nba	basketball	NN	nba	basketball	19	20	the young man who said he was told he '' was n't supposed to be here '' won the nba 's top individual honor tuesday .	the young man who said he was told he '' was n't supposed to be here '' won the national basketball association 's top honor tuesday .
stand	withstand	VB	stand	withstand	22	12	backed by millions of dollars from the federal government , they are racing to develop new breeds of farm animals that can stand up to global warming .	around the country , food scientists are developing farm animals that can withstand -lrb- global warming -rrb- .
essential	important	JJ	essential	important	17	15	those leading the experiments , however , say new , heat-resistant breeds of farm animals will be essential to feeding the world as climate change takes hold .	the scientists , though , say the new breeds of farm animals will be very important for feeding the world .
science	scientist	NN	science	scientist	6	4	he is a professor of food science and human nutrition at michigan state university .	schmidt is a food scientist at the university of delaware .
tasty	delicious	JJ	tasty	delicious	14	8	rolf 's goal is to create an uber-steer as resilient as a brahman and tasty as an angus .	angus is a cattle breed known for its delicious meat .
impoverished	poverty-stricken	JJ	impoverished	poverty-stricken	20	16	but schmidt says where he hopes his work can be most beneficial is in increasing survival for backyard flocks in impoverished areas of africa and south america .	but schmidt says his work can be most helpful in increasing the survival of chickens in poverty-stricken areas of africa and south america .
british	english	JJ	british	english	19	14	one of the six caryatids was removed by lord elgin in the 19th century and today stands in the british museum .	in the 19th century , one of the six caryatids was removed by an english nobleman .
scant	little	JJ	scant	little	6	4	untold numbers of ffa members have scant to do with farms , as rebecca goodman illustrates .	many ffa members have little to do with farms , as rebecca goodman illustrates .
bogus	false	JJ	bogus	false	10	8	they say men threatened them , harassed them even filed bogus police reports against them .	men threatened them , harassed them even filed false police reports against them .
mountaineering	mountain	NN	mountaineering	mountain	7	7	the number of women in trekking and mountaineering has risen as well , said shailee basnet .	the number of women in trekking and mountain climbing is also higher , said shailee basnet .
take	accept	VBP	take	accept	2	2	the sisters take in 40 students every six months , giving them free housing , food and clothing .	the sisters accept 40 students every six months , and give them free housing , food and clothing .
close	nearly	RB	close	nearly	8	8	the chettris have 150 women guides who lead close to 1,000 foreign trekkers a year .	the chettris have 150 women guides who lead nearly 1,000 foreign trekkers a year .
dissuade	discourage	VB	dissuade	discourage	23	20	over the weekend , school principal kathy scott sent an email to parents bringing the draft to their attention and urging them to dissuade their kids from participating .	over the weekend , school principal kathy scott sent an email to parents about the draft and urged them to discourage their kids from participating .
venue	location	NN	venue	location	9	8	forty senior boys assembled recently at a '' private venue '' clad in ceremonial sport coats to participate in the ritual , according to the emails .	forty senior boys assembled recently at a private location clad in ceremonial sport coats to participate in the ritual , according to the emails .
selection	choice	NN	selection	choice	14	9	each boy was put on the clock and given two minutes to make a selection .	each boy was given two minutes to make his choice .
better	higher	JJR	better	higher	16	14	but during the separate junior prom draft , a boy apparently paid $ 140 for a better chance of asking out a specific girl .	but at another prom draft , a boy apparently paid $ 140 for a higher number .
hypercompetitiveness	hyper-competitiveness	NN	hypercompetitiveness	hyper-competitiveness	23	13	more than merely money , she said , the controversies at corona del mar high school are a function of the area 's hypercompetitiveness .	the problems at corona del mar high school come from the area 's hyper-competitiveness , she said .
building	tower	NN	building	tower	15	6	the opening is creating quite a stir , partly because it 's such a pivotal building in architecture and partly because it has never been open for tours .	this is partly because of the tower 's beautiful design , but also because it has never been open for tours .
islamist	islamic	JJ	islamist	islamic	11	15	johannesburg nigerian parents of more than 200 girls kidnapped by an islamist terrorist group desperately scanned a video on tuesday , searching for their daughters ' faces .	johannesburg in nigeria , more than 200 girls were kidnapped on april 14 by an islamic terror group .
roller-coaster	roller	NN	roller-coaster	roller	0	0	roller-coaster lovers are already planning group outings .	roller coaster lovers are already planning group trips to the ride .
roller-coaster	coaster	NN	roller-coaster	coaster	0	1	roller-coaster lovers are already planning group outings .	roller coaster lovers are already planning group trips to the ride .
tolerate	endure	VB	tolerate	endure	18	16	then will come hundreds of test runs , featuring water-filled dummies wearing accelerometers to ensure that riders can tolerate forces exceeding three times the pull of gravity .	then will come hundreds of test runs with water-filled dummies to make sure that riders can endure forces more than three times the pull of gravity .
meal	lunch	NN	meal	lunch	26	21	the regular post-lunch parade of dobbs elementary children by the trash cans monday showed that the school 's food team had mostly pulled off a successful meal .	on monday at dobbs elementary , the regular post-lunch parade of children by the trash cans revealed that the day 's lunch had largely been successful .
successful	good	JJ	successful	good	25	8	the regular post-lunch parade of dobbs elementary children by the trash cans monday showed that the school 's food team had mostly pulled off a successful meal .	on monday at dobbs elementary , there was good news : the day 's lunch had largely been a hit with kids .
apple	apple-slice	NN	apple	apple-slice	8	6	here and there , some whole servings of apple slices got dumped , but otherwise empty trays and empty milk cartons filled the bins .	true , a smattering of whole apple-slice servings got dumped .
slice	apple-slice	NN	slice	apple-slice	5	6	a smattering of whole apple slice servings got dumped but otherwise , empty trays and empty milk cartons filled the bins .	true , a smattering of whole apple-slice servings got dumped .
strain	stress	NN	strain	stress	5	5	schools already are feeling some strain , the nutrition association reported .	schools already are feeling some stress .
whole-grain	whole	JJ	whole-grain	whole	1	3	the whole-grain movement has taken regular macaroni and cheese out of the mix .	the switch to whole grains has taken regular macaroni and cheese out of the mix .
next	upcoming	JJ	next	upcoming	7	7	she agrees , however , that the next level of demands may be pushing too far , particularly when it comes to the sodium limits .	coughenor agrees , however , that the upcoming rules may be pushing too far .
people	folks	NNS	people	folk	12	10	afterward , nasa launched a series of contests for smart and talented people around the globe .	afterward , nasa launched a series of contests for smart folks around the globe .
vulnerable	sensitive	JJ	vulnerable	sensitive	3	3	hammerheads are particularly vulnerable .	hammerheads are particularly sensitive .
university	college	NN	university	college	19	15	the san diego fires forced evacuations of schools , businesses , homes , a mobile-home park and california state university , san marcos .	people hurriedly left schools , businesses , homes , a mobile-home park and even a college in san marcos .
even	yet	RB	even	yet	17	7	meanwhile , backhoes dug row upon row of graves and hearses lined up outside the cemetery with even more dead miners .	hearses lined up outside the cemetery with yet more dead miners .
aide	assistant	NN	aide	assistant	17	12	turkish newspapers cumhuriyet , milliyet and others on thursday printed photographs they said were of an erdogan aide , identified as yusuf yerkel , kicking a protester .	turkish newspapers on thursday printed pictures they said were of erdogan 's assistant kicking a protester .
tragedy	disaster	NN	tragedy	disaster	5	6	erdogan promised that tuesday 's tragedy would be investigated thoroughly and no carelessness will be ignored .	erdogan promised that tuesday 's mining disaster would be investigated thoroughly .
nauseous	sick	JJ	nauseous	sick	9	9	children interviewed by the group reported vomiting , feeling nauseous and headaches while working on tobacco farms .	children interviewed by the group said they sometimes felt sick while working on tobacco farms .
cyber	online	NN	cyber	online	10	17	it said that an official from essentia health found that cyber intruders can change how drug pumps work .	it said that an official from essentia health found that people can change how drug pumps work online .
comprehensive	detailed	JJ	comprehensive	detailed	4	4	electronic health records contain comprehensive patient information and allow all the patient 's health care providers to share that information .	electronic health records contain detailed patient information .
seek	want	VBP	seek	want	11	11	as it is , about four of every five adults who seek to join do n't qualify .	under the plan , about four of every five people who want to join wo n't make it .
army	military	NN	army	military	13	10	those troop cuts are not expected to be as deep as in the army , the largest recruiter of all .	commanders did not have to be as picky when the military was bigger .
less	fewer	JJR	less	fewer	5	0	and fewer young veterans means less opportunity to have college costs covered by gi benefits .	fewer young soldiers means fewer people getting college costs covered by military benefits .
derby-preakness	derby	NN	derby-preakness	derby	15	8	since affirmed last won the triple crown in 1978 , 12 horses have completed the derby-preakness double without adding the third jewel .	since then , 12 horses have won the derby and preakness , but none of them won the belmont .
derby-preakness	preakness	NN	derby-preakness	preakness	15	10	since affirmed last won the triple crown in 1978 , 12 horses have completed the derby-preakness double without adding the third jewel .	since then , 12 horses have won the derby and preakness , but none of them won the belmont .
big-money	big	JJ	big-money	big	13	4	the horse 's owners and trainers are almost folksy by the standards of big-money thoroughbred horse racing .	thoroughbred racing is a big business .
globe	planet	NN	globe	planet	14	13	the loss of even a portion of that ice would have consequences across the globe .	the loss of even part of that ice would be felt across the planet .
precise	exact	JJ	precise	exact	7	7	the data was used to measure the precise location of the glaciers ' so-called grounding lines the point at which glaciers connect to a land mass .	the data was used to measure the exact location of the glaciers ' grounding lines .
rigid	stiff	JJ	rigid	stiff	7	11	the thought of it makes him sit rigid with anger , his eyes flashing .	the thought of the return to his old life makes him stiff with anger .
veranda	porch	NN	veranda	porch	14	13	on a recent day , dozens of the children were gathering on a shaded veranda here .	on a recent day , dozens of the children gathered on a shaded porch in sibut .
locate	find	VB	locate	find	19	16	humanitarian workers who are caring for some of the former fighters and sex slaves can spend months trying to locate the children 's families .	humanitarian workers who are caring for some of the former fighters can spend months trying to find their families .
already	back	RB	already	back	2	7	charly has already been approached by militias on the other side , eager to take advantage of his knowledge of the seleka .	mireille said she 'd like to go back to school , and jordy said he would like to try farming .
mate	partner	NN	mate	partner	20	13	he became famous three years ago , when he left his pack in northeastern oregon to find territory and a mate to call his own .	that was when he left his pack in northeastern oregon to find a partner and a place to call his own .
involve	include	VB	involve	include	4	2	this transition will probably involve substituting some vegetable products for meat , keeping fewer animals on factory farms and possibly eating insects .	this could include more vegetables , fewer animals , and possibly eating insects .
village	town	NN	village	town	8	7	the authors envision a day when '' every village '' grows its own meat .	the authors envision a day when every town grows its own meat .
energy	electricity	NN	energy	electricity	9	6	if cultured meat can be grown in algae , energy use would n't be reduced dramatically , the authors wrote .	man-made meat wo n't save much electricity , the authors wrote .
decide	choose	VB	decide	choose	13	8	but few people his age face such an extreme choice : he must decide between becoming a lawyer or dying on the surface of mars .	unlike many people his age , leonard must choose between becoming a lawyer and dying on the surface of mars .
entrepreneur	company	NN	entrepreneur	company	15	10	the journey is being organized by mars one , a nonprofit founded by a dutch entrepreneur who insists it can be accomplished with current technology .	the journey is being organized by mars one , a company founded by a dutch businessman bas lansdorp .
potential	would-be	JJ	potential	would-be	6	7	the group began soliciting applications from potential colonists last year .	last year , the group began inviting would-be colonists to apply to the project .
helpful	useful	JJ	helpful	useful	18	20	leonard does n't have much training in flight , engineering , agriculture , medicine or any other skills helpful to sustaining life on another planet .	leonard does n't have much training in flight , engineering , agriculture , medicine or any of the other skills useful for surviving on another planet .
contingency	emergency	NN	contingency	emergency	14	14	before leaving earth , he 'd need to know more about the technology and contingency plans .	before leaving earth , he 'd need to know more about the technology and emergency backup plans .
prolong	lengthen	VB	prolong	lengthen	17	17	leonard said he understands that law school would be a more practical choice and one that might prolong his life .	leonard said he understands that law school would be a more practical choice and one that might lengthen his life .
rough	tough	JJ	rough	tough	5	5	dallas growing up in a rough north dallas neighborhood , jordan henderson envisioned just two options for his future jail or the graveyard .	dallas growing up in a tough dallas neighborhood , jordan henderson saw just two options for his future jail or the graveyard .
think	imagine	VB	think	imagine	12	13	notably , there was also a group of offenders those who could think long term who successfully reformed .	notably , there was also a group of juvenile criminals those who could imagine they had a future who successfully reformed .
mentality	mindset	NN	mentality	mindset	3	3	that 's a mentality that 15-year-old merl lovings of desoto can relate to .	that 's a mindset that 15-year-old merl lovings of desoto , texas , can relate to .
juvenile	young	JJ	juvenile	young	9	7	piquero said that 's a typical dilemma for many juvenile offenders .	piquero said that 's typical for many young lawbreakers .
disadvantaged	poor	JJ	disadvantaged	poor	18	13	based on his study 's findings , piquero said he hopes the government will do more to give disadvantaged teens opportunity to be productive citizens .	piquero said he hopes the government will give more opportunities to teens from poor families .
important	big	JJ	important	big	8	9	but he said parents and teachers are really important also .	but he said parents and teachers also play a big role .
transform	change	VBP	transform	change	7	3	but he watches the offenders ' attitudes transform with the chance to prepare food and serve guests at top-notch restaurants , such as hibiscus or cane rosso .	but their attitudes change when they 're put to work preparing and serving food at some of the best restaurants .
best	finest	JJS	best	finest	18	16	but their attitudes change when they 're put to work preparing and serving food at some of the best restaurants .	but their outlook changes with the chance to prepare and serve food in some of the finest restaurants .
whole	entire	JJ	whole	entire	20	22	austin , texas jaime morin , 9 , was diagnosed with autism at age 2 and has been nonverbal his whole life .	austin , texas jaime morin , 9 , has autism , a condition that has made him nonverbal unable to talk his entire life .
child	kid	NN	child	kid	16	16	the idea is that the ipad is to be used as a means to help the child communicate and for no other purpose .	the idea is that the ipad is to be used as a means to help the kid communicate and for no other purpose .
talk	speak	VB	talk	speak	19	10	the ipad can do more than just help children with autism communicate ; sometimes it can facilitate them to talk .	it sometimes also can make it easier for them to speak .
deem	consider	VBP	deem	consider	12	12	hard-liners accuse rouhani of failing to stop the spread of what they deem '' decadent '' western culture in iran .	hard-liners accuse rouhani of failing to stop the spread of what they consider '' decadent '' western culture in iran .
sufficiently	enough	RB	sufficiently	enough	21	22	they accuse rouhani of showing leniency and too much tolerance toward those who question islamic sanctities or women who are not sufficiently veiled .	they accuse rouhani of showing leniency and too much tolerance toward those who question islamic sanctities or women who are not veiled enough .
enough	sufficiently	RB	enough	sufficiently	22	18	they accuse rouhani of showing leniency and too much tolerance toward those who question islamic sanctities or women who are not veiled enough .	they accuse rouhani of being too tolerant toward those who question islamic practices or women who are not sufficiently veiled .
describe	call	VBP	describe	call	1	1	they describe themselves as williams fans , adding : '' ' happy ' was an excuse to be happy .	they call themselves williams fans , adding : '' ' happy ' was an excuse to be happy .
reside	live	VBP	reside	live	3	3	some 70,000 yucatecans reside in the bay area , basto said , with smaller concentrations in and around los angeles and portland , ore .	about 70,000 yucatecans live in the bay area .
here	there	RB	here	there	10	9	jerusalem according to tradition , jesus ate a passover meal here at the cenacle the night before his crucifixion .	according to tradition , jesus ate a passover meal there the night before his crucifixion .
friar	monk	NN	friar	monk	1	6	franciscan friar alberto joan pari would like to see christians be able to pray more regularly in the cenacle , arguably where christianity began .	alberto joan pari is a franciscan monk .
plane	airplane	NN	plane	airplane	7	8	it was a cheaper alternative to a plane and allowed closer shots , he said .	it was a cheaper alternative to using an airplane and allowed for closer images , he said .
airplane	plane	NN	airplane	plane	8	8	it was a cheaper alternative to using an airplane and allowed for closer images , he said .	it was a cheaper alternative to using a plane and allowed closer images , howard said .
collide	hit	VBP	collide	hit	9	3	it bubbles up from the area where tectonic plates collide and the magma is created , some 60 miles beneath the surface .	sometimes the plates hit each other and cause earthquakes .
make	say	VBP	make	say	3	1	together , they make up one of the most complete series of imaging experiments ever conducted on any volcano , say researchers .	researchers say it is one of the largest series of imaging experiments ever conducted on any volcano in the world .
interpret	understand	VB	interpret	understand	15	8	finding answers is important , scientists say , because it will enable them to better interpret the volcano 's signals when magma is on the move .	they hope it will enable them to better understand when magma is moving .
know	understand	VB	know	understand	8	8	they hope it will enable them to better know when magma is on the move .	they hope it will enable them to better understand when magma is moving .
poem	poetry	NN	poem	poetry	4	4	it was the first poem at an inauguration in 32 years .	she did the first poetry reading at an inauguration in 32 years .
poetry	poem	NN	poetry	poem	4	4	she did the first poetry reading at an inauguration in 32 years .	it was the first poem at an inauguration in 32 years .
name-and-number	name	NN	name-and-number	name	15	10	again this year there are spellers who write invisible words on the backs of their name-and-number placards , on arms , on hands and in the air .	some spellers wrote invisible words on the backs of their name cards , on arms , on hands and in the air .
phenomenon	event	NN	phenomenon	event	7	5	the annual event has become a major phenomenon .	it has become a major event .
right	correct	JJ	right	correct	10	5	she started over twice , then committed herself to the right vowel in the second syllable , and spelled homburg .	then she figured out the correct second vowel , and spelled homburg .
conduit	pipe	NN	conduit	pipe	4	4	foggara -lrb- an underground conduit for carrying water -rrb- , baedeker -lrb- travel guidebooks -rrb- and bobbejaan -lrb- an afrikaans word for baboon -rrb- are some others .	foggara is an underground pipe for carrying water .
resolve	solve	VB	resolve	solve	17	11	he acknowledged that neither crisis has yet been resolved , but argued there 's an opportunity to resolve them peacefully .	obama argued , however , that there 's a chance to solve them peacefully .
support	approve	VB	support	approve	9	9	to that end , he called on congress to support a proposed $ 5 billion counterterrorism fund .	to that end , he called on congress to approve a $ 5 billion fund to fight terrorism .
realize	achieve	VB	realize	achieve	19	8	although he regards most technology companies as '' culturally inept , '' iovine believes apple will empower beats to realize its goals .	but he thinks apple will help beats to achieve its goals .
monarch	king	NN	monarch	king	20	15	dna and other tests proved that the remains belonged to richard , the final plantagenet king and the last english monarch to die in combat .	dna and other tests proved that the remains belonged to richard , the last english king to die in combat and the last of the plantagenet rulers .
francisco	franco	NN	francisco	franco	2	1	when dictator francisco franco decided that , upon his death , the country 's monarchy should be restored , he picked juan carlos as heir .	when franco decided that , after his death , the country 's monarchy should be restored , he picked juan carlos as heir .
coup	takeover	NN	coup	takeover	13	8	he became a source of support for democratic prime ministers and thwarted a coup attempt in 1981 when members of the military tried to take over the government .	in 1981 , he helped defeat an attempted takeover of spain 's government by members of the army .
many	large	JJ	many	large	17	8	he lived a relatively modest lifestyle in the zarzuela palace , which is not much bigger than many a company chairman 's home .	the palace is not much bigger than a large home .
thankful	grateful	JJ	thankful	grateful	0	3	thankful for the democratic freedoms , which it partly saw as the work of the king , the press initially treated the royals with discretion .	the press was grateful for the democratic freedoms .
fraud	cheating	NN	fraud	cheating	19	13	but the wounds were reopened when his daughter , cristina , was charged earlier this year with committing tax fraud and other financial crimes .	but earlier this year , his daughter , cristina , was charged with cheating on her taxes and hiding money .
rigid	strict	JJ	rigid	strict	19	9	the group supported the law in 2010 , but its leaders now say the regulations it spawned are too rigid .	but its leaders now say the rules are too strict .
harsh	strict	JJ	harsh	strict	9	9	but its leaders now say the rules are too harsh .	but its leaders now say the rules are too strict .
waiver	exemption	NN	waiver	exemption	1	1	the waiver is aimed at schools that have seen resources slide as more paying students are opting out of school lunches and bringing their own food .	the exemption is aimed at schools that have seen resources slide .
exemption	break	NN	exemption	break	1	1	the exemption is aimed at schools that have seen resources slide .	the break is only aimed at certain schools .
standard	rule	NN	standard	rule	8	9	they want to hold to the newly enacted standard for sodium rather than a lower target scheduled to go into effect in a few years .	the group also wants to hold to the new rule for salt rather than a lower target scheduled to go into effect in a few years .
hard	tough	JJ	hard	tough	17	4	binkle noted that he was a member of the school nutrition association , but said its '' hard line '' on the law did not reflect his views .	but he said its tough stand on the law did not reflect his views .
duplicate	reproduce	VB	duplicate	reproduce	15	9	zupp then sets a timer and grabs another deck to see how fast he can duplicate the order of the shuffled cards .	he is about to see how fast he can reproduce the order of the shuffled cards .
duplicate	replicate	VB	duplicate	replicate	15	9	zupp then sets a timer and grabs another deck to see how fast he can duplicate the order of the shuffled cards .	he is about to see how fast he can replicate the order of the shuffled cards .
reproduce	replicate	VB	reproduce	replicate	9	9	he is about to see how fast he can reproduce the order of the shuffled cards .	he is about to see how fast he can replicate the order of the shuffled cards .
assign	give	VB	assign	give	1	1	most assign visual images to just about everything and create places in their minds to store those pictures , which serve as memory triggers .	most give visual images to just about everything .
alluring	attractive	JJ	alluring	attractive	5	5	the peak is just too alluring .	the peak is just too attractive to climbers .
donation	contribution	NN	donation	contribution	2	2	tisch 's donation will sustain and expand a university program founded in 2012 .	tisch 's contribution will expand a program founded in 2012 .
care	treatment	NN	care	treatment	10	8	its goal will be to fuel advances in detection , care and recovery , and to clarify the longer-term effects of concussion on the still-developing brain .	its goal will be to fuel advances in treatment , and to learn more about the longer-term effects of concussion .
athletics	sports	NNS	athletics	sport	22	13	as white house spokesman jay carney pointed out , this has made parents wary of allowing their children to participate in organized athletics .	this has made parents wary of allowing their children to participate in several sports , particularly football and hockey .
comprehensive	extensive	JJ	comprehensive	extensive	16	16	the ncaa and the department of defense will spend $ 30 million to fund the most comprehensive research to date on concussions .	the ncaa and the department of defense will spend $ 30 million to fund the most extensive research to date on concussions .
scrub	brush	NN	scrub	brush	15	7	bergdahl slept in a one-man tent at the observation post , a tiny patch of scrub in paktika province , near the pakistan border in eastern afghanistan .	the post is a tiny patch of brush near the pakistan border in eastern afghanistan .
court-martial	military	JJ	court-martial	military	10	9	although sutton said he wants to see bergdahl face a court-martial , he considered him a good soldier until he disappeared .	he said he wants to see bergdahl face a military trial , though he considered him a good soldier until he disappeared .
diversion	distraction	NN	diversion	distraction	6	6	the stellar search was a welcome diversion for sandoval , whose mother , holly houser , died of cancer in october .	the stellar search was a welcome distraction for sandoval , whose mother , holly houser , died of cancer in october .
publish	release	VB	publish	release	8	8	instead , he and vo are rushing to publish their findings with romanowsky .	instead , he and vo are rushing to release their findings together with romanowsky .
boring-scientist	boring	JJ	boring-scientist	boring	16	21	between his forearm tattoos and outspoken , boyish sense of humor , vo certainly shatters the boring-scientist stereotype .	between his forearm tattoos and outspoken , boyish sense of humor , vo certainly does n't fit the image of the boring scientist .
sense	idea	NN	sense	idea	8	7	between his forearm tattoos and outspoken , boyish sense of humor , vo certainly shatters the boring-scientist stereotype .	vo certainly does n't fit anyone 's idea of the boring scientist .
assertion	claim	NN	assertion	claim	1	1	his assertion that the mystery man did n't look anything like modern native americans infuriated northwest tribes , who consider the remains to be those of an ancestor .	his claim that the mystery man did n't look anything like modern native americans infuriated northwest tribes , who consider the remains those of an ancestor .
cavern	cave	NN	cavern	cave	9	9	she apparently took a fatal tumble into the limestone cavern between 12,000 and 13,000 years ago , before slowly rising seas engulfed the formation .	she apparently took a fatal fall into the limestone cave between 12,000 and 13,000 years ago .
business	work	NN	business	work	14	3	orchestras in the czech republic , slovakia and macedonia also are attracting more hollywood business .	much of the work has gone to britain .
tech	technology	NN	tech	technology	1	2	the tech giant announced on its blog tuesday that it plans to test about 200 of its own two-seat self-driving cars .	the giant technology company said on tuesday that it plans to test about 200 of its own self-driving cars .
probably	likely	RB	probably	likely	4	4	but tuesday 's news probably will speed up development of self-driving cars at many of the largest automakers .	tuesday 's news will likely speed up work on self-driving cars at many of the largest automakers .
philosophy	thinking	NN	philosophy	thinking	3	3	this change in philosophy , from a company of google 's stature , could ripple through the auto industry , he said .	this change in thinking , from a company of google 's stature , could ripple through the auto industry , he said .
evolution	change	NN	evolution	change	1	1	that evolution may happen faster than people think .	that change may happen faster than people think .
predict	expect	VBP	predict	expect	2	2	many automakers predict they will have fully autonomous cars on the road by 2020 .	many automakers expect they will have fully self-driving cars on the road by 2020 .
posture	position	NN	posture	position	13	14	the researchers kept detailed records of these koalas ' activities , noting their posture and their preferences for high or low branches .	the researchers kept detailed records of these koalas ' activities , noting their body position and their preferences for high or low branches .
realize	know	VBP	realize	know	18	9	it 's an ingenious strategy for chilling out , and koalas probably are n't the only animals that realize it , the researchers wrote .	and koalas probably are n't the only animals that know it .
fatter	bigger	JJR	fatter	bigger	10	10	the world is n't getting smaller , it 's getting fatter , according to a comprehensive report published thursday in the lancet .	the world is n't getting smaller , it 's getting bigger literally according to a new report .
higher	larger	JJR	higher	larger	22	9	it 's not just that the global population grew and thus the number of people who are carrying around extra weight is higher .	it 's not just that the global population is larger and so more people weigh too much .
cumulative	combined	JJ	cumulative	combined	10	10	a few extra pounds may seem harmless , but their cumulative effect is serious , public health experts say .	a few extra pounds may seem harmless , but the combined effect is serious , public health experts say .
compile	gather	VB	compile	gather	15	15	for the new study , dozens of researchers from around the world worked together to compile accurate statistics for 183 countries .	for the new study , dozens of researchers from around the world worked together to gather accurate figures on weight for 183 countries .
cemetery	graveyard	NN	cemetery	graveyard	14	2	with its 9,387 white marble tombstones on a bluff overlooking omaha beach , the cemetery is a special place for americans .	the huge graveyard is a special place .
home	home-improvement	NN	home	home-improvement	10	8	some pro-gun texans have held rallies at fast-food restaurants and home - improvement stores .	they have taken place at fast-food restaurants and home-improvement stores .
concern	question	NN	concern	question	18	3	the question of whether guns can be carried into the center during the three-day convention has been a concern .	there is a question over whether guns can be carried into the center .
question	concern	NN	question	concern	3	11	there is a question over whether guns can be carried into the center .	whether guns can be carried into the center has been a concern .
misunderstanding	confusion	NN	misunderstanding	confusion	10	3	open carry tarrant county also made national headlines after a misunderstanding at a jack in the box in fort worth prompted a 911 call .	their actions caused confusion at a jack in the box in fort worth .
sovereign	independent	JJ	sovereign	independent	7	7	a federally recognized tribe is considered a sovereign nation that has a government-to-government relationship with the united states .	a federally recognized tribe is considered an independent nation .
regulate	govern	VBP	regulate	govern	10	11	it possesses the right to create and enforce laws , regulate activities within its territory and determine who is eligible to be a member .	it also has the right to create and enforce laws , govern its territory and decide who may be a member .
discovery	finding	NN	discovery	finding	16	20	david wilcove , a conservation expert at princeton university , described the migration as an extraordinary discovery at a time when such mass movements are dwindling .	david wilcove , a conservation expert at princeton university , was not involved in the research but still thought the finding was remarkable .
extraordinary	remarkable	JJ	extraordinary	remarkable	15	22	david wilcove , a conservation expert at princeton university , described the migration as an extraordinary discovery at a time when such mass movements are dwindling .	david wilcove , a conservation expert at princeton university , was not involved in the research but still thought the finding was remarkable .
extraordinary	special	JJ	extraordinary	special	15	6	david wilcove , a conservation expert at princeton university , described the migration as an extraordinary discovery at a time when such mass movements are dwindling .	he described the migration as a special discovery when such mass movements are disappearing .
available	ready	JJ	available	ready	7	2	reports based on the combined data are available to teams as quickly as 60 seconds after something has happened on the court , according to kopp .	reports are ready 60 seconds after something happens on the court .
particular	certain	JJ	particular	certain	6	18	users can learn how well a particular player guards another or how well a team does when it is defended in a particular way .	users can learn how well a particular player guards another or how well a team does against a certain defense .
evaluate	gauge	VB	evaluate	gauge	19	14	teams , including the warriors , also use sportvu to help identify players they may consider acquiring and to evaluate players ' conditioning .	teams also use sportvu to help identify players they may consider acquiring and to gauge players ' conditioning .
strong	powerful	JJ	strong	powerful	15	15	that , too , should help the hurricane center improve its predictions about just how strong a hurricane will become .	that , too , should help the hurricane center improve its predictions about just how powerful a hurricane will become .
intensify	strengthen	VB	intensify	strengthen	16	16	additionally , forecasters hope the coyote will help them better anticipate when a hurricane might rapidly intensify , which could be devastating if the system is near land .	additionally , forecasters hope the coyote will help them better anticipate when a hurricane might rapidly strengthen .
anticipate	predict	VBP	anticipate	predict	10	10	additionally , forecasters hope the coyote will help them better anticipate when a hurricane might rapidly intensify , which could be devastating if the system is near land .	additionally , forecasters hope the coyote will help them better predict when a hurricane might rapidly strengthen .
expectation	hope	NN	expectation	hope	15	15	yet noaa might deploy two or three of them into a single storm with no expectation of seeing them again .	yet two or three of them might be sent into a single storm with little hope of seeing them again .
nurture	feed	VB	nurture	feed	19	18	noaa also plans to dispatch aquatic drones to capture ocean temperatures and determine how much heat is available to nurture storms .	noaa also plans to dispatch drones to capture ocean temperatures and determine how much heat is available to feed storms .
dispatch	send	VB	dispatch	send	4	4	noaa also plans to dispatch aquatic drones to capture ocean temperatures and determine how much heat is available to nurture storms .	noaa also plans to send drones to capture ocean temperatures .
assignment	task	NN	assignment	task	11	10	it was there that they learned the daunting nature of their assignment .	it was there that they learned just how challenging their task would be .
easy-to-remember	easy	JJ	easy-to-remember	easy	8	12	for key military words , they relied on easy-to-remember images .	for key military words , they came up with things that were easy to remember .
easy	easy-to-remember	JJ	easy	easy-to-remember	12	9	for key military words , they came up with things that were easy to remember .	for important military words , they came up with easy-to-remember code names .
decrypt	decode	VB	decrypt	decode	9	9	messages that had taken 30 minutes to code and decrypt using other systems were translated and deciphered in 20 seconds by the navajo code talkers .	messages that had taken 30 minutes to code and decode using other systems were translated and deciphered decoded in 20 seconds by the navajo code talkers .
vitally	extremely	RB	vitally	extremely	2	2	they were vitally important to the campaign on iwo jima , sending and decoding 800 messages without error in the first 48 hours of the operation .	they were extremely important to the campaign on iwo jima .
extremely	highly	RB	extremely	highly	2	2	they were extremely important to the campaign on iwo jima .	they were highly important to the attack on iwo jima .
extremely	particularly	RB	extremely	particularly	2	4	they were extremely important to the campaign on iwo jima .	navajo code talkers were particularly important for one battle : the attack on iwo jima .
highly	particularly	RB	highly	particularly	2	4	they were highly important to the attack on iwo jima .	navajo code talkers were particularly important for one battle : the attack on iwo jima .
operation	mission	NN	operation	mission	24	9	they were crucial to the campaign on iwo jima , conveying and decoding 800 messages without error in the first 48 hours of the operation .	code talkers sent and decoded 800 messages in that mission 's first 48 hours .
secrecy	secret	NN	secrecy	secret	8	13	the crew of the ship was sworn to secrecy .	the crew of the ship had to swear to keep the operation a secret .
ship	boat	NN	ship	boat	4	1	the crew of the ship was sworn to secrecy .	the boat 's crew had to swear to keep the operation a secret .
cope	deal	VB	cope	deal	11	11	jfk took as many as 12 pills at a time to cope with his illnesses .	jfk took as many as 12 pills at a time to deal with his illnesses .
fascinating	interesting	JJ	fascinating	interesting	2	2	lionfish are fascinating , beautiful creatures .	lionfish are interesting and beautiful .
spawn	reproduce	VB	spawn	reproduce	8	3	the fish mature in a year and can spawn every four days , pumping out 2 million eggs a year .	the fish can reproduce within one year and a single female can pump out 2 million eggs a year .
own-goal	goal	NN	own-goal	goal	9	11	brazilian defender marcelo looked stunned when he scored an own-goal that gave croatia an unlikely 1-0 lead after just 11 minutes .	brazilian defender marcelo looked stunned when he scored on his own goal .
body	organization	NN	body	organization	9	9	there were also boos for fifa , the governing body of football .	there were also boos for fifa , the governing organization of football .
host	home	NN	host	home	3	20	brazil , also host in 1950 , waited 64 years for the world cup to return .	brazilians have waited 64 years for the world cup to return , and now it 's finally back in their home country .
dubious	doubtful	JJ	dubious	doubtful	14	14	nancy black , an anthropology professor at metro state university , was even more dubious .	nancy black , an anthropology professor at metro state university , was even more doubtful .
source	cause	NN	source	cause	9	9	the research team is now trying to discover the source of the problem .	taylor 's team is now trying to discover the cause of the drop in phosphorous levels .
meticulously	carefully	RB	meticulously	carefully	1	2	the meticulously organized collection of dyes , which dates to the 1940s , was legendary among textile insiders .	eastman 's carefully organized collection of dyes , which dates to the 1940s , was legendary among textile insiders .
single	single-largest	JJ	single	single-largest	3	3	weaver created the single largest portion of the dye library , but more than a dozen other chemists also contributed .	weaver created the single-largest part of the dye library .
permanently	forever	RB	permanently	forever	13	12	now , once it 's online , their work will become all but permanently preserved .	now , once it 's online , their work will be preserved forever .
intact	undamaged	JJ	intact	undamaged	23	22	but a few phone calls revealed that a wall had been placed in front of the mural and that it was probably still intact .	but a few phone calls revealed that a wall had been placed in front of the mural and that it was probably undamaged .
fronting	front	NN	fronting	front	12	17	moore and others raised funds to help pay to take down the fronting wall .	afrikan student union members and others raised money to help pay to take down the wall in front .
food-preparation	food	NN	food-preparation	food	14	8	in between swigs of olive oil and wisecracks , he imparted knife skills and food-preparation techniques .	vetri joked as he demonstrated knife skills and food preparation .
food-preparation	preparation	NN	food-preparation	preparation	14	9	in between swigs of olive oil and wisecracks , he imparted knife skills and food-preparation techniques .	vetri joked as he demonstrated knife skills and food preparation .
programming	program	NN	programming	program	7	8	she saw an opportunity to create new programming , while addressing a startling statistic .	she saw an opportunity to create a new program , while addressing a startling fact .
low-literate	low	JJ	low-literate	low	2	2	a '' low-literate '' person would have trouble filling out a job application or following written directions .	a '' low - literate '' person has trouble reading .
low	low-literate	JJ	low	low-literate	2	2	a '' low - literate '' person has trouble reading .	a '' low-literate '' person does n't read well .
prep	preparation	NN	prep	preparation	14	15	that welcome mat comes in the form of a demonstration island facing nine stainless-steel prep tables .	that welcome mat comes in the form of a demonstration island facing nine stainless-steel food preparation tables .
food-prep	food	NN	food-prep	food	23	10	it 's rigged up to a video system that allows students to get a close-up view , via tv screens , of the food-prep and cooking process .	with video , students can get a close-up view of food preparation and cooking .
fridge	refrigerator	NN	fridge	refrigerator	15	15	there 's also a grill top , 16 burners , three ovens , a walk-in fridge .	there 's also a grill top , 16 burners , three ovens and a walk-in refrigerator .
space	location	NN	space	location	11	3	english for the restaurant program coordinator mallory fix-lopez said the library space will make a big difference .	she said the location will make a big difference .
specialist	expert	NN	specialist	expert	9	9	liz fitzgerald , the library 's new culinary literacy specialist , hopes that 's the case .	liz fitzgerald is the library 's new food literacy expert .
fire	wildfire	NN	fire	wildfire	16	9	last august , its beloved camp near yosemite was destroyed in august by the same raging fire that threatened san jose 's camp 7 miles away .	last august , it was destroyed in the same wildfire .
vicious	brutal	JJ	vicious	brutal	7	7	fire ants may be famous for their vicious sting .	fire ants may be famous for their brutal sting .
adaptable	flexible	JJ	adaptable	flexible	6	5	doing this makes the raft more adaptable , allowing it to expand and contract when needed .	this made the raft more flexible , allowing it to expand and contract when needed .
bike	motorcycle	NN	bike	motorcycle	16	5	the bar was packed with people , bidwell said , and he had just shown the bike to some of them three minutes earlier .	he had just shown the motorcycle to some of them three minutes earlier .
motorcycle	bike	NN	motorcycle	bike	14	8	i was 15 feet from it , '' he said , about where the motorcycle was parked .	i was 15 feet '' away from the bike , he said .
biker	motorcycle	NN	biker	motorcycle	9	15	generally , there are n't many motorcycle thefts at biker rallies .	generally , though , one rule holds true : there are n't many thefts at motorcycle rallies .
terminal	station	NN	terminal	station	14	14	kampala , uganda madinah nalukenge remembers when she began selling food at a bus terminal in the ugandan capital .	kampala , uganda madinah nalukenge remembers when she began selling food at a bus station here in the ugandan capital in 2004 .
credit	fund	NN	credit	fund	19	1	the venture dubbed the women entrepreneurs opportunity facility aims to work with local banks in sharing risks and extending credit to 100,000 women entrepreneurs .	the fund , called the women entrepreneurs opportunity facility , aims to work with local banks to lend money to 100,000 women entrepreneurs .
facility	fund	NN	facility	fund	7	1	the venture dubbed the women entrepreneurs opportunity facility aims to work with local banks in sharing risks and extending credit to 100,000 women entrepreneurs .	this fund aims to lend money to 100,000 women entrepreneurs .
sanctuary	refuge	NN	sanctuary	refuge	10	5	washington president barack obama announced the creation of a marine sanctuary tuesday that would close a large swath of the central pacific to fishing and energy development .	washington a proposed new sea refuge would close a large area of the central pacific to fishing and exploration for oil and gas .
address	solve	VB	address	solve	11	10	the plan would require federal agencies to take multiple initiatives to address pollution , overfishing and acidification of ocean water , which is driven by climate change .	under the plan , the government would take action to solve the problems of pollution , overfishing and acidification of ocean water .
require	take	VB	require	take	3	7	the plan would require federal agencies to come up with plans to deal with pollution , overfishing and acidification of ocean water .	under the plan , the government would take action to solve the problems of pollution , overfishing and acidification of ocean water .
deal	solve	VB	deal	solve	12	10	the plan would require federal agencies to come up with plans to deal with pollution , overfishing and acidification of ocean water .	under the plan , the government would take action to solve the problems of pollution , overfishing and acidification of ocean water .
ambitious	far-reaching	JJ	ambitious	far-reaching	6	4	among the ocean plan 's most ambitious and controversial steps would be the expansion of the pacific remote islands marine national monument southwest of hawaii .	the plan 's most far-reaching step would be to enlarge the pacific remote islands marine national monument southwest of hawaii .
effect	monument	NN	effect	monument	19	9	the expanded protections , which under federal law the president can order without congressional approval , could go into effect this year after a public comment period .	under federal law , the president can create the monument without approval from congress .
zone	area	NN	zone	area	3	1	the proposed protection zone holds some of the world 's '' richest marine life and least disturbed areas .	the area holds some of the world 's richest sea life .
acidity	acid	NN	acidity	acid	2	1	greater ocean acidity poses a threat to a range of marine life , including coral reefs and shellfish beds , like oyster hatcheries in the pacific northwest .	this acid threatens marine life , like coral reefs and oyster beds .
football	soccer	NN	football	soccer	1	4	the football it 's been open , attacking and packed full of goals and great moments is doing all the talking .	now it 's the soccer that is doing all the talking the games have been open , attacking and packed full of goals and great moments .
game	match	NN	game	match	14	14	clint dempsey scored just half a minute into the united states ' world cup game in an end-to-end 2-1 win over ghana .	clint dempsey scored just half a minute into the united states ' world cup match in an end-to-end 2-1 win over ghana .
switch	change	NN	switch	change	11	10	the netherlands made a mockery of pre-tournament criticism of their formation switch with blisteringly fast , attacking play to blow away defending champion spain 5-1 .	the netherlands made a mockery of pre-tournament criticism of their change in formation as their fast , attacking play blew away defending champion spain 5-1 .
apparel	clothing	NN	apparel	clothing	9	9	if others printed the name on sweatshirts or other apparel without permission , it would become more cumbersome to go after such groups .	if others printed the name on sweatshirts or other clothing without permission , it would become more difficult to go after them .
cumbersome	difficult	JJ	cumbersome	difficult	17	17	if others printed the name on sweatshirts or other apparel without permission , it would become more cumbersome to go after such groups .	if others printed the name on sweatshirts or other clothing without permission , it would become more difficult to go after them .
meaningful	important	JJ	meaningful	important	24	9	researchers suggest that these kids spend so much time trying to gain status , they do n't develop the positive social skills needed for meaningful friendships .	researchers suggest that these kids are failing to develop important life skills .
poem	song	NN	poem	song	8	3	16 , 1814 , by key as a poem after he watched the battle of baltimore on sept .	key wrote the song as he watched the battle of baltimore from a ship in the harbor .
immediately	quickly	RB	immediately	quickly	12	10	but the verses , published in a newspaper and widely distributed , immediately became popular .	the verses were published in a newspaper and became popular quickly .
indication	idea	NN	indication	idea	9	9	the tongue prints they left behind gave scientists an indication of the contact area and the amount of mucus on the tongue .	the tongue prints they left behind gave scientists an idea of the size of the contact area and the amount of mucus on the tongue .
mass	weight	NN	mass	weight	19	21	the researchers found that , on average , the adhesive force of the frogs ' tongues exceeded their body mass by 50 percent .	the researchers found that the adhesive , or sticky , force of the frogs ' tongues was greater than their body weight by 50 percent .
adhesive	sticky	JJ	adhesive	sticky	9	6	the researchers found that , on average , the adhesive force of the frogs ' tongues exceeded their body mass by 50 percent .	the researchers found something about the sticky force of the frogs ' tongues .
astonishing	amazing	JJ	astonishing	amazing	7	7	kleinteich 's observations may help explain the astonishing speed of the frogs ' tongues , which dart in and out of their mouths in milliseconds .	kleinteich 's discovery may help explain the amazing speed of the frogs ' tongues .
adhere	stick	VBP	adhere	stick	4	4	frogs ' tongues also adhere instantaneously .	frogs ' tongues also stick immediately .
teen	teenage	JJ	teen	teenage	14	1	drawn by their song , 10 members of earth to sky calculus , a teen science club , break from their work and gather on a cabin deck .	ten teenage members of the science club earth to sky calculus take a break from their work to gather on a cabin deck to listen .
recovery	retrieval	NN	recovery	retrieval	2	2	their longest recovery was when a lunchbox landed in nevada 's area 51 .	their longest retrieval was when a lunchbox landed in nevada 's area 51 , a highly restricted area used for weapons and aircraft testing .
path	direction	NN	path	direction	11	3	gaetjens caught just enough of it to change the ball 's path and catch english goalkeeper bert williams flatfooted .	the change in direction caught english goalkeeper bert williams off-guard .
nurse	nursing	NN	nurse	nursing	16	5	but the bigger problem has been that tight budgets in many places have meant that full-time nurse positions are n't being added to keep up with population growth .	schools are not adding new nursing jobs to keep up with the growing number of school kids .
county	country	NN	county	country	3	3	much of the county does n't have enough school nurses .	much of the country does n't have enough nurses .
time	moment	NN	time	moment	9	7	washington for pablo picasso , 1901 was a pivotal time to experiment and find his own unique style .	washington the year 1901 was a pivotal moment for pablo picasso to experiment and find his own unique style .
painting	painter	NN	painting	painter	15	1	at just 19 years old , he was living in paris , dirt poor and painting furiously .	the painter was just 19 years old and living in paris .
unusual	strange	JJ	unusual	strange	3	3	it was n't unusual for him to take one canvas and reuse it to paint a fresh idea .	it was n't strange for him to take one painting and reuse it to paint a fresh idea .
portrait	painting	NN	portrait	painting	11	5	using advances in infrared imagery , they have uncovered a hidden portrait of a bow-tied man with his face resting on his hand .	underneath it they discovered a painting of a bow-tied man with his face resting on his hand .
inspiring	encouraging	JJ	inspiring	encouraging	6	3	it 's a mystery that is inspiring new detective work on the painting .	but it 's encouraging new detective work on the painting .
land	field	NN	land	field	10	3	school officials now hope to create a field on city land that could be used for soccer , baseball and softball .	they hope the field can be used for soccer , baseball and softball .
different	several	JJ	different	several	3	6	this is very different from the old habit of kids playing a variety of sports with time off in between seasons .	in the past , kids played several different sports .
osteoarthritis	arthritis	NN	osteoarthritis	arthritis	16	13	athletes who had an acl injury are 10 times more likely to have early-onset degenerative knee osteoarthritis than those who never had an acl injury .	athletes who had an acl injury are 10 times more likely to develop arthritis in their knee than those who never had one .
language	speech	NN	language	speech	18	18	as such , it 's not surprising that in mexico the english word has been adopted into everyday language .	as such , it 's not surprising that in mexico the english word has been adopted into regular speech .
speech	language	NN	speech	language	18	16	as such , it 's not surprising that in mexico the english word has been adopted into regular speech .	it 's not surprising that in mexico , the english word has been adopted into everyday language .
cyber-bullying	cyberbullying	NN	cyber-bullying	cyberbullying	8	6	it was after she attended a talk about cyber-bullying that she went to police .	after she attended a talk about cyberbullying , the mother decided to go to the police .
clearer	better	JJR	clearer	better	7	7	federal officials said they hope to craft clearer civilian drone rules by 2015 , but some experts said that 's too optimistic a timeline .	government officials said they hope to make better rules by 2015 .
livid	furious	JJ	livid	furious	6	6	wic officials , meanwhile , are livid .	wic officials , meanwhile , are furious .
countenance	tolerate	VB	countenance	tolerate	8	8	advocates for the poor said they can not countenance what they see as congressional overreach .	advocates for the poor said they can not tolerate what they see as congressional overreach .
approximately	around	RB	approximately	around	8	12	oviedo and his six compatriots were selected from approximately 1,000 south florida teenagers who participate in wordspeak and speakout , its sister program for glbtq youth .	the seven members of the team were selected from a group of around 1,000 wordspeak members .
provision	offer	NN	provision	offer	1	1	the provision was part of a sweeping law that expands where georgians can legally carry guns .	the offer was part of a sweeping law that expands where all georgians can legally carry guns .
discussion	argument	NN	discussion	argument	11	9	the new law pulled georgia education leaders into a second amendment discussion they say they never wanted .	the new law pulled georgia education leaders into an argument about the second amendment .
appropriate	useful	JJ	appropriate	useful	10	4	the idea is n't irrational , but it 's only appropriate for schools that are located far away from law enforcement , said mike dorn .	but it 's only useful for schools that are far away from a police station , said mike dorn .
face	deal	VB	face	deal	5	7	they are n't likely to face a lone shooter intent on killing many .	they are n't likely to have to deal with a lone shooter intent on killing many .
student	child	NN	student	child	4	14	for example , a student with disabilities who gets hold of a screwdriver or a desperate parent caught in a custody battle could pose more problems .	so could a desperate parent caught in a custody battle over his or her child .
participate	join	VB	participate	join	19	15	now the question facing district officials in newly eligible states is whether it makes financial and political sense to participate .	now the question facing district officials in other states is whether it makes sense to join .
give	let	VB	give	let	10	8	at that point , '' it really becomes easier to give everyone the free meals , '' she said .	at that point , it is easier to let everyone eat for free .
sense	way	NN	sense	way	2	2	in one sense , they already know : an explosion in whale science reveals that orcas face complex and overlapping threats that tend to compound one another .	in one way , scientists already know .
appear	seem	VBP	appear	seem	3	4	three main factors appear to contribute to their decline a lack of food , the buildup of pollutants in their bodies and disturbance by marine vessels .	the number of whales seem to be decreasing because of three main factors .
northern-resident	northern	JJ	northern-resident	northern	1	3	the northern-resident killer whale population has tripled to nearly 300 since the 1960s .	the number of northern killer whales has tripled to nearly 300 since the 1960s .
southern	southern-resident	JJ	southern	southern-resident	4	4	two of the three southern - resident pods have a shortage of young females .	two of the three southern-resident pods do n't have enough young females .
southern-resident	southern	JJ	southern-resident	southern	4	4	two of the three southern-resident pods do n't have enough young females .	two of the three southern whale groups do n't have enough young females .
test	pilot	NN	test	pilot	5	6	the picture was probably a test shot taken moments before aviator amelia earhart lifted off on her doomed flight around the world .	miami the photo of famous female pilot amelia earhart was taken on june 1 , 1937 , in the shadows before dawn .
scrap	piece	NN	scrap	piece	1	1	the scrap looked like it came from the torn outer skin of an airplane .	the piece looked like it was torn from the outer skin of an airplane .
fantasy	imagination	NN	fantasy	imagination	18	6	later he showed her notebook to coast guard authorities , who were n't interested , thinking it the fantasy of a bored teenager .	officials thought it came from the imagination of a bored teenager and were n't interested .
migration	immigration	NN	migration	immigration	17	17	many of the migrants , in fact , stay for years as their cases wind through overloaded migration courts .	many of the migrants , in fact , stay for years as their cases wind through overloaded immigration courts .
bring	lead	VB	bring	lead	8	7	however , a broad-based change in terminology could bring pressure on the two countries to do more .	however , a change in thinking could lead to real change .
bring	put	VB	bring	put	8	2	however , a broad-based change in terminology could bring pressure on the two countries to do more .	it could put pressure on the two countries to do more .
islamic	muslim	JJ	islamic	muslim	6	6	upon her arrival , she urged islamic extremists to free the 219 schoolgirls who were kidnapped there three months ago .	upon her arrival , she urged muslim fighters to free the 219 schoolgirls who were kidnapped there three months ago .
islam	muslim	NN	islam	muslim	8	4	malala , who practices the muslim religion of islam , appealed directly to their captors .	malala , who is muslim , appealed directly to the girls ' captors .
insurgency	rebellion	NN	insurgency	rebellion	7	7	the attack also raises fears that the insurgency is spreading beyond its stronghold at the opposite end of the country .	the attack also raises fears that the rebellion is spreading beyond its home turf at the opposite end of the country .
bomber	bomb	NN	bomber	bomb	16	22	at least four people died in the june 25 blasts , including an alleged female suicide bomber .	at least four people died in the june 25 blasts , including a woman who was believed to have set off the bomb .
credible	believable	JJ	credible	believable	5	5	he also called for a credible investigation .	he also called for a believable and trustworthy investigation .
credible	trustworthy	JJ	credible	trustworthy	5	5	he also called for a credible investigation .	he also called for a trustworthy investigation .
pro-russia	pro-russian	JJ	pro-russia	pro-russian	7	5	the ukrainian government in kiev is fighting pro-russia rebels in eastern ukraine who are trying to break away from ukraine .	the ukrainian government is fighting pro-russian rebels who are trying to separate from ukraine .
verify	prove	VB	verify	prove	6	5	there was no way to independently verify the video .	there was no way to prove the accuracy of the video .
site	scene	NN	site	scene	5	3	access to the sprawling crash site remained difficult and dangerous .	reaching the crash scene remained dangerous .
projectile	missile	NN	projectile	missile	19	19	one rebel militiaman in rozsypne told the ap the plane 's fuselage showed signs of being struck by a projectile .	one rebel militiaman in rozsypne told the ap the plane 's fuselage showed signs of being struck by a missile .
authority	official	NN	authority	official	3	3	a malaysian aviation authority insisted friday that the airline 's path was an internationally approved route .	a malaysian air official said friday that the airline took an internationally approved route .
aviation	air	NN	aviation	air	2	2	a malaysian aviation authority insisted friday that the airline 's path was an internationally approved route .	a malaysian air official said friday that the airline took an internationally approved route .
start	begin	VB	start	begin	2	2	workers might start building restaurants , hotels , shops and even a gondola ride at a nearby navajo indian reservation .	workers could begin building at a nearby navajo indian reservation .
afford	give	VB	afford	give	7	7	the proposed grand canyon escalade gondola would afford an opportunity for tourists to reach the canyon floor .	the proposed grand canyon escalade gondola would give tourists an opportunity to reach the canyon floor .
afford	allow	VB	afford	allow	7	3	the proposed grand canyon escalade gondola would afford an opportunity for tourists to reach the canyon floor .	the gondola would allow tourists to get to the canyon floor .
give	allow	VB	give	allow	7	3	the proposed grand canyon escalade gondola would give tourists an opportunity to reach the canyon floor .	the gondola would allow tourists to get to the canyon floor .
diminish	decrease	VB	diminish	decrease	4	4	they expect it to diminish the small amount of water found naturally on the dry colorado plateau .	they expect it to decrease the small amount of water found naturally on the dry colorado plateau .
amusing	funny	JJ	amusing	funny	4	6	the situation remained an amusing photo op until a young elk pair began to vigorously defend the water fountain , chasing away tourists .	at first , the situation seemed funny .
persuade	convince	VB	persuade	convince	5	5	park officials are trying to persuade tusayan to downsize its plans .	park officials are trying to convince the city of tusayan to build less .
conservation	conservationist	NN	conservation	conservationist	7	1	to dave nimkin of the national parks conservation association , the developments represent '' profound and enormous threats to the park .	to conservationist dave nimkin , the developments represent '' enormous threats to the park .
still	yet	RB	still	yet	0	0	still , cuyahoga county received more in-migration from brooklyn and chicago between 2007 and 2011 than it sent to those places , piiparinen said .	yet cuyahoga county saw more people move from brooklyn and chicago between 2007 and 2011 than it sent to those places , piiparinen said .
elsewhere	else	RB	elsewhere	else	8	8	like lebron , they just needed some time elsewhere before they returned .	like lebron , they just needed time somewhere else first .
not	only	RB	not	only	3	0	the tribune is not using the last names of the teens because kanak said they could face backlash at home for their participation in the program .	only the teens ' first names are being used , because kanak said they could face problems at home for their participation in the program .
barbecue	picnic	NN	barbecue	picnic	5	5	earlier the group had a barbecue at elder park in suburban winnetka followed by a game of softball , a sport many of them had never played before .	earlier the group had a picnic at a park .
barbecue	barbecuing	NN	barbecue	barbecuing	2	4	as smoky barbecue scent fills the air and hip-hop thumps from a speaker , two inner-city teens are playing hard .	as the smell of barbecuing fills the air and hip-hop thumps from a speaker , two inner-city teens are playing hard .
scent	smell	NN	scent	smell	3	2	as smoky barbecue scent fills the air and hip-hop thumps from a speaker , two inner-city teens are playing hard .	as the smell of barbecuing fills the air and hip-hop thumps from a speaker , two inner-city teens are playing hard .
routinely	regularly	RB	routinely	regularly	8	7	all of the teens in urban warriors are routinely exposed to violence , and many are involved with gangs .	all of the teens in urban warriors regularly face dangerous situations .
huge	vast	JJ	huge	vast	11	12	dwaine perry , a ramapough chief , said there is a huge difference between the franklin lakes logo and the redskins trademark .	dwaine perry , a ramapough chief , said that there is a vast difference between the franklin lakes logo and the redskins ' logo .
vast	big	JJ	vast	big	11	5	dwaine perry , a ramapough chief , said there is a vast difference between the franklin lakes logo and the redskins trademark .	he said there is a big difference between the franklin lakes logo and the redskins logo .
city	town	NN	city	town	3	3	he thinks the city should continue to include a depiction of a native american in its official logo .	perry thinks the town should continue to include a picture of a native american in its official logo .
offensive	insulting	JJ	offensive	insulting	20	19	of almost 200 comments received , most focused on whether the inclusion of a native american figure is historical or offensive .	most of the 200 comments received focused on whether the inclusion of a native american figure is historical or insulting .
gauge	measure	VB	gauge	measure	15	15	mayor frank bivona said the survey was not a vote but rather a way to gauge opinion , and the final decision will be made by elected officials .	mayor frank bivona said the survey was not a vote but rather a way to measure opinion .
attack	assault	NN	attack	assault	17	8	the israelis were backed by tanks and drones ; the palestinians were armed with rocket-propelled grenades and attack rifles .	the palestinians were armed with rocket-propelled grenades and assault rifles .
battle	fighting	NN	battle	fighting	14	13	hundreds of residents of eastern khan younis were seen fleeing their homes as the battle unfolded , flooding into the streets with any belongings they could carry .	hundreds of residents of khan younis were seen fleeing their homes as the fighting started .
stop	halt	VB	stop	halt	8	8	israel says it launched the gaza operation to stop hamas rocket fire into israel .	israel says it launched the gaza operation to halt hamas rocket fire into israel more than 2,100 rockets have been fired since the conflict erupted .
strike	bombing	NN	strike	bombing	5	4	pillay noted an israeli drone strike that killed three children and wounded two others while they were playing on the roof of their home .	she noted an israeli bombing that killed three children and wounded two others while they were playing on the roof of their home .
internet	online	NN	internet	online	11	8	his legacy , though , is being preserved virtually on the internet .	his history , though , is being preserved online .
headquarters	command	NN	headquarters	command	10	10	stowell estimated that the roosevelt library will eventually become the headquarters for scholars and fans of roosevelt .	stowell estimated that the roosevelt library will eventually become the command center for scholars and fans of roosevelt .
command	headquarters	NN	command	headquarters	10	9	stowell estimated that the roosevelt library will eventually become the command center for scholars and fans of roosevelt .	stowell thinks the roosevelt library site will become the headquarters for roosevelt scholars and fans .
artist	art	NN	artist	art	24	5	a rotating committee of seven artists and curators evaluates proposed donations to see whether they fairly represent the body of work of a given artist .	a committee of artists and art experts looks at proposed donations .
precisely	carefully	RB	precisely	carefully	13	1	the gadgets float along more or less as swimmers would and let researchers precisely and repeatedly track where the rip currents take them .	scientists carefully track where the rip currents take them .
nonetheless	however	RB	nonetheless	however	0	0	nonetheless , a given stretch of beach in north carolina may develop them only rarely .	however , one particular beach may develop them only rarely .
research	researcher	NN	research	researcher	15	13	one of the volunteers wednesday was something of a celebrity in the world of coastal research rob brander .	one of the volunteers wednesday was ron brander , a highly respected coastal researcher from australia .
diligent	industrious	JJ	diligent	industrious	8	8	he does n't rely on shotlink because as diligent as the volunteers are , he said they 're not always accurate .	he does n't rely on shotlink because as industrious as the volunteers are , he said they 're not always accurate .
cattle	cows	NNS	cattle	cow	0	9	cattle in the distance , almost 1,100 head to be driven on this day earlier this week .	rope coiled off the side of his saddle and cows were in the distance , almost 1,100 head to be herded on a recent day .
favor	prefer	VBP	favor	prefer	20	20	the cattle are herded by men , women and children on horseback , not the pickup trucks that many ranchers favor nowadays .	men , women and children round up the cows on horseback , instead of the pickup trucks that many ranchers prefer .
intricate	complicated	JJ	intricate	complicated	3	3	a cellphone and intricate spreadsheets help cliff cole manage the ranching operations here .	a cellphone and complicated computerized records help cliff cole manage the ranching operations here .
manage	run	VBP	manage	run	8	8	a cellphone and intricate spreadsheets help cliff cole manage the ranching operations here .	a cellphone and a computer help cliff cole run the ranch .
ranching	ranch	NN	ranching	ranch	10	10	a cellphone and intricate spreadsheets help cliff cole manage the ranching operations here .	a cellphone and a computer help cliff cole run the ranch .
computerized	computer	NN	computerized	computer	4	4	a cellphone and complicated computerized records help cliff cole manage the ranching operations here .	a cellphone and a computer help cliff cole run the ranch .
much	largely	RB	much	largely	14	3	three generations of the nelson family , for example , have been herding pretty much the same way , on horseback , for decades .	the july roundup largely is a family affair , and three generations of the nelson family , for example , have been herding on horseback , for decades .
largely	mainly	RB	largely	mainly	3	4	the july roundup largely is a family affair , and three generations of the nelson family , for example , have been herding on horseback , for decades .	the july roundup is mainly a family affair .
year-old	old	JJ	year-old	old	10	14	somewhere out in the hills are thousands of head of year-old beef cattle unaware they soon will be herded into 18-wheeler trucks .	in the hills are thousands of beef cattle , which are about a year old .
cattle	animals	NNS	cattle	animal	12	1	somewhere out in the hills are thousands of head of year-old beef cattle unaware they soon will be herded into 18-wheeler trucks .	the animals have no idea they soon will be herded into 18-wheeler trucks .
desire	want	VBP	desire	want	21	11	they break into a jog , as if the pens by the side of a road are just where these cows desire to be .	it is as if the pens are just where these cows want to be .
grasp	understanding	NN	grasp	understanding	6	6	especially not to city folk whose grasp of the beef business is limited to the eating part .	especially not to city folk whose understanding of the beef business is limited to the eating part .
different	various	JJ	different	various	3	3	the initiative is different at different schools .	the initiative takes various forms at different schools .
inequitable	unequal	JJ	inequitable	unequal	2	2	he mentioned inequitable funding , inadequate resources and under-qualified teachers as hurdles that can trip up black students , regardless of the number of black male teachers .	he mentioned unequal funding , inadequate resources and under-qualified teachers as hurdles that can trip up black students , regardless of the number of black male teachers .
inadequate	poor	JJ	inadequate	poor	5	0	he mentioned inequitable funding , inadequate resources and under-qualified teachers as hurdles that can trip up black students , regardless of the number of black male teachers .	poor schools and under-trained teachers can also hurt black students , regardless of the number of black male teachers , milner said .
ferocious	fierce	JJ	ferocious	fierce	4	4	after four weeks of ferocious fighting , the guns of gaza fell silent tuesday with a 72-hour truce in place .	after four weeks of fierce fighting , all was silent in gaza tuesday .
silent	quiet	JJ	silent	quiet	12	8	after four weeks of ferocious fighting , the guns of gaza fell silent tuesday with a 72-hour truce in place .	after four weeks of fighting , it was quiet in gaza tuesday .
accord	deal	NN	accord	deal	12	8	talks are set to follow in egypt aimed at forging a stable accord between israel and palestinian militants who rule gaza .	they 'll be aimed at getting a peace deal between the two sides .
inaccessible	unreachable	JJ	inaccessible	unreachable	26	26	the fighting has exacted a heavy toll : nearly 1,900 palestinians reported dead , with the toll likely to rise when bodies are recovered from previously inaccessible areas .	the fighting has exacted a heavy toll : nearly 1,900 palestinians reported dead , with the toll likely to rise when bodies are recovered from previously unreachable areas .
time	program	NN	time	program	14	0	they say parents need to introduce fruits and vegetables and limit television and computer time so it becomes part of a child 's routine .	program organizers say parents need to introduce fruits and vegetables .
latino	latina	NN	latino	latina	11	11	miami children 's hospital also has a 10-week program for overweight latino teen girls called healthy chicas .	miami children 's hospital also has a 10-week program for overweight latina teen girls called healthy chicas .
nutrition	eating	NN	nutrition	eating	6	6	the two-hour-long sessions include exercise and nutrition education and cooking instruction .	the sessions include exercise , healthy eating and cooking lessons .
revert	return	VB	revert	return	18	13	he swats at the maddening gnats that hover like paparazzi as he follows a closed road left to revert to its natural state .	he walks past darting lizards as he follows a closed road left to return to its natural state .
hunt	hunter	NN	hunt	hunter	11	4	richardson is a dinosaur finder , a bone prospector on the hunt for prehistoric predators and their prey .	he is a bone hunter of ancient predators and their prey .
create	produce	VB	create	produce	12	17	artists working on the upcoming movie '' home '' will have to create a lot of soap bubbles .	artists working on the upcoming movie '' home '' have a challenging job : they have to produce a lot of pictures of three-dimensional soap bubbles .
event	meeting	NN	event	meeting	1	5	the event was the first of its kind and the largest any american president has held with african leaders .	it was also the largest meeting any american president has ever held with african leaders .
access	entry	NN	access	entry	13	3	countries including china have held similar events for years as they 've sought access to african markets for oil and other natural resources .	all have sought entry to african markets to obtain oil and other natural resources .
world	earth	NN	world	earth	11	10	the continent 's middle class is the fastest growing in the world .	the continent 's middle class is the fastest growing on earth .
world	planet	NN	world	planet	11	11	the continent 's middle class is the fastest growing in the world .	the continent 's middle class is the fastest growing on the planet .
earth	planet	NN	earth	planet	10	11	the continent 's middle class is the fastest growing on earth .	the continent 's middle class is the fastest growing on the planet .
still	however	RB	still	however	5	0	africa , he said , still has its '' hot spots , '' but many of its 53 countries have changed over the past 10 years .	however , many of its 53 countries have changed over the past 10 years .
senior	experienced	JJ	senior	experienced	3	4	but the more senior students such as judson , known as trench masters , work late into the afternoon to meticulously record the day 's findings .	however , the more experienced students , known as trench masters , work late into the afternoon to record the day 's findings .
get	take	VBP	get	take	15	12	most students , judson said , find it both intellectually and physically challenging until they get into the routine .	most students find the work both intellectually and physically challenging but some take to the hard work .
allow	help	VBP	allow	help	8	2	supporters of children with special needs say they allow young people today to grow up with a better understanding and openness toward people with disabilities .	the programs help them grow up with a better understanding and openness toward people with disabilities .
typically	normally	RB	typically	normally	19	15	special olympics unified sports is an international program that puts athletes with special needs on the same fields as typically functioning athletes .	it puts athletes with special needs on the same fields as athletes who can play normally .
iraqi	iraqis	JJ	iraqi	iraqis	6	6	the strikes are intended to save iraqi religious minorities surrounded by the fighters and help defend americans in the region .	the airstrikes are intended to save iraqis surrounded by the fighters .
pre-packaged	prepackaged	JJ	pre-packaged	prepackaged	11	11	the planes delivered 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water and 8,000 pre-packaged meals and were over the drop area for less than 15 minutes at a low altitude .	the planes delivered 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water and 8,000 prepackaged meals .
altitude	height	NN	altitude	height	27	14	the planes delivered 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water and 8,000 pre-packaged meals and were over the drop area for less than 15 minutes at a low altitude .	they were over the drop area for less than 15 minutes at a low height .
undertake	make	VB	undertake	make	8	8	officials said the united states was prepared to undertake additional humanitarian airdrops if necessary , though they did not say how quickly those missions could occur .	officials said the united states was prepared to make more airdrops if necessary , although they did not say how quickly those missions could occur .
expressly	specifically	RB	expressly	specifically	3	3	some republicans have expressly called for the president to take action and have said he does n't need the approval of lawmakers .	some republicans have specifically called for the president to take action and have said he does not need the approval of lawmakers .
overseas	abroad	RB	overseas	abroad	18	8	to boost its image , the united states sent jazz greats dizzy gillespie , louis armstrong and others overseas to showcase the unique american art form .	the united states wanted to boost its image abroad .
unique	special	JJ	unique	special	22	20	to boost its image , the united states sent jazz greats dizzy gillespie , louis armstrong and others overseas to showcase the unique american art form .	that 's when the united states sent jazz greats dizzy gillespie , louis armstrong and others abroad to showcase the special american art form .
host	hold	VB	host	hold	15	4	games involving sierra leone are already under scrutiny after that country said it would not host any soccer matches until further notice because of ebola .	sierra leone wo n't hold any soccer matches for now because of the ebola virus .
place	position	NN	place	position	24	24	after seychelles authorities refused to let the sierra leone party in , the seychelles soccer federation was forced to forfeit the game and its place in qualifying .	after seychelles authorities refused to let the sierra leone party in , the seychelles soccer federation was forced to forfeit the game and its position in qualifying .
body	group	NN	body	group	2	1	african soccer body caf said it was investigating that move by the seychelles , which could result in soccer sanctions .	the group governing african soccer said it was investigating that move by seychelles .
inconsequential	unimportant	JJ	inconsequential	unimportant	8	8	that 's not to say russian sales are inconsequential .	that 's not to say russian sales are unimportant .
come	gone	VBN	come	go	4	4	more than 3,000 have come to florida this year to join family members , but they still must establish their right to remain .	more than 3,000 have gone to florida this year .
scene	place	NN	scene	place	4	4	but it is a scene off chicago 's lawrence avenue .	but this scene takes place off chicago 's lawrence avenue .
section	portion	NN	section	portion	1	1	another section is planted and worked communally .	another portion of the farm is planted and worked by the rest of the local community .
scale	size	NN	scale	size	8	9	farming in albany park is different in both scale and climate .	farming in albany park is different because of the size of the plots and the weather .
area	space	NN	area	space	16	16	then , garden project founder lamanda joy spotted a vacant lot in albany park , an area home to many refugees .	then , lamanda joy , who worked at the garden project , spotted a big empty space in albany park .
plot	lot	NN	plot	lot	4	1	it turned out the plot was owned by the city .	the lot turned out to be owned by the city .
mischievous	playful	JJ	mischievous	playful	18	18	local shop owner cindy skeen said she often sees black bears around her house , finding them more mischievous than menacing .	local shop owner cindy skeen said she often sees black bears around her house , finding them more playful than dangerous .
take	hold	VB	take	hold	23	17	if the agency decides to proceed with reintroducing grizzlies , there will come a set of scientific reviews and public hearings that could take years .	if the agency decides to proceed with bringing back grizzlies , it will study the issue and hold public hearings .
romance	love	NN	romance	love	2	2	but the romance appears to stop there .	but the love for the bear appears to stop there .
remote	far-off	JJ	remote	far-off	8	10	grizzlies have been shunted to live within the remote confines of yellowstone national park and the surrounding ecosystem .	grizzlies have been forced to live in and around the far-off yellowstone national park in wyoming .
country	home	NN	country	home	14	5	yellowstone is not an ideal grizzly habitat and it does not provide enough open country that the bears love .	yellowstone is not an ideal home for grizzlies .
populous	crowded	JJ	populous	crowded	13	11	encouraging the largest predator on the american landscape to colonize anywhere in a populous state seems unlikely to some experts and unwise to others .	encouraging the largest predator in america to live anywhere in a crowded state seems unlikely to some experts and unwise to others .
proceed	move	VB	proceed	move	5	6	greenwald acknowledged the need to proceed cautiously .	greenwald agreed with the need to move slowly .
confines	borders	NNS	confines	border	9	8	even if grizzlies were reintroduced in the relatively protected confines of national parks , they would most certainly wander out , potentially placing them in conflict with people .	even if grizzlies were reintroduced in the protected borders of national parks , they would certainly wander out .
image	photo	NN	image	photo	6	9	rather , it was a news image of brown , placed along with that of james holmes , the colorado theater shooter , that enraged her .	rather , it was that the news placed the photo of brown below one of james holmes , the colorado theater shooter .
trip	ride	NN	trip	ride	6	6	plus , the indoor musical boat trip is fully air-conditioned , the lines usually move fast and it clocks in at 15 minutes .	adding to its popularity : the ride is 15 minutes long , air-conditioned , and the line moves fast .
designer	design	NN	designer	design	6	25	rolly crump , 84 , a designer who worked with blair , attributes small world 's popularity to a simple theme and detailed artwork .	a simple theme and detailed artwork have kept then ride popular all these years , according to rolly crump , 84 , who helped blair design it .
disney	disneyland	NN	disney	disneyland	3	9	in 2009 , disney renovated the original ride in anaheim , california , to add modern disney songs and movie characters .	in 2009 , disney changed the original ride at disneyland in california .
journey	ride	NN	journey	ride	15	13	her 2-year-old son , logan , recently took his first trip on the musical boat journey .	her 2-year-old son , logan , recently took his first trip on the ride .
plight	suffering	NN	plight	suffering	20	22	although the stories from iraq can not be independently confirmed , yazidis here have no doubt of their relatives ' plight .	although the stories from iraq can not be confirmed , yazidis in the united states have no doubt of their relatives ' suffering .
ubiquitous	widespread	JJ	ubiquitous	widespread	5	5	social media have become more ubiquitous , and that helps coaches fill the information gap in recruiting .	social media have become more widespread , and that helps coaches fill the information gap in recruiting .
work	project	NN	work	project	8	11	the humidity , heat and muddy soil made work difficult .	the panama canal turned out to be a much more difficult project .
get	gain	VB	get	gain	4	4	chicago disadvantaged teens may get more than an academic boost by attending top-notch high schools their health may also benefit , a study suggests .	chicago low-income teens may gain more than an academic boost by attending top-notch high schools .
top-performing	top	JJ	top-performing	top	12	6	the study involved mostly latino students who applied to one of three top-performing public charter schools from 2007 to 2010 .	they applied to one of three top schools in los angeles from 2007 to 2010 .
batter	pitcher	NN	batter	pitcher	10	10	the applause heightened significantly when davis struck out the final batter , becoming the first girl to throw a shutout in little league world series history .	with that final out , she became the first female pitcher to throw a shutout in little league world series history .
gravity	seriousness	NN	gravity	seriousness	11	14	the governor 's curfew and state of emergency decree showed the gravity of the situation in ferguson .	the governor 's curfew and his declaration of a state of emergency showed the seriousness of the situation in ferguson .
avenue	road	NN	avenue	road	17	14	as twilight descended on ferguson , police blocked vehicular traffic on the south end of west florissant avenue , the scene of most protests and unrest .	as twilight descended on ferguson , police blocked the south end of west florissant road , the scene of most protests and unrest .
nothing	something	NN	nothing	something	10	9	federal authorities also want to calm any public fears that nothing will be done in the case , weinstein said .	federal authorities want to let the public know that something is being done , weinstein said .
predominantly	mainly	RB	predominantly	mainly	15	4	the protests have been going on since brown 's death heightened racial tensions between the predominantly black community and the mostly white ferguson police department .	the ferguson community is mainly black and its police department is mainly white .
much	little	JJ	much	little	4	3	police have n't said much about what happened , only that it involved a scuffle in which the officer was injured and brown was shot .	police have said little about what happened next , only that there was a scuffle in which the officer was injured and brown was shot .
detention	holding	NN	detention	holding	15	16	at one point , the immigrant children in vincennes staged a peaceful sit-down to protest detention conditions .	at one point , the immigrant children in vincennes protested peacefully against the conditions at the holding centers .
facility	center	NN	facility	center	4	11	when they confided the facility 's misconduct to iu 's law school students , we notified the federal government , which took immediate corrective action .	when they told iu 's law school students of the holding center 's bad treatment , we notified the federal government , which took immediate action .
shortly	soon	RB	shortly	soon	0	0	shortly thereafter , the private facility stopped housing immigrant children .	soon after , the private holding center stopped housing immigrant children .
continue	stay	VB	continue	stay	4	5	our youngest immigrants must continue to have their legal rights protected , provided visas when merited , and repatriated safely as necessary .	they should be allowed to stay when they deserve to , and sent back home safely when necessary .
state	say	VB	state	say	2	2	he must state firmly that illegal crossings will be stopped , most new arrivals will be turned around , and an '' amnesty '' is off the table .	obama must say strongly that illegal crossings will be stopped .
firmly	strongly	RB	firmly	strongly	3	3	he must state firmly that illegal crossings will be stopped , most new arrivals will be turned around , and an '' amnesty '' is off the table .	obama must say strongly that illegal crossings will be stopped .
state	declare	VB	state	declare	2	2	he must state firmly that illegal crossings will be stopped , most new arrivals will be turned around , and an '' amnesty '' is off the table .	he must declare that most new arrivals will be turned around .
display	show	VBP	display	show	2	2	the stamps display scenes from some of the eight wildly popular films .	the stamps show scenes from some of the eight wildly popular harry potter movies .
straight	directly	RB	straight	directly	12	13	milwaukee to understand earthquakes , scientists have hatched an audacious plan go straight to the source .	milwaukee to understand earthquakes , scientists at the university of wisconsin-madison are going directly to their source miles below the earth .
groundwater	underground	NN	groundwater	underground	20	18	these include the pressure , temperature , and stresses and strains on the rocks , as well as properties of groundwater in the area .	these include the pressure , temperature , and strains on the rocks , as well as the water underground .
water	sea	NN	water	sea	9	18	this is especially true for faults that are under water , as many of the most dangerous , tsunami-generating faults are .	many of the most dangerous faults that cause tsunamis earthquakes that create huge tidal waves are under the sea .
earthquake	quake	NN	earthquake	quake	9	8	they will quietly collect data , waiting for an earthquake that could strike at any time .	they will collect information and wait for a quake that could strike at any time .
infamous	famous	JJ	infamous	famous	8	8	scientists drilled a 2-mile-deep hole that pierced the infamous san andreas fault in california .	scientists drilled a 2-mile-deep hole that pierced the famous san andreas fault in california that has caused so many earthquakes throughout the state .
thoroughly	completely	RB	thoroughly	completely	4	14	few did so as thoroughly and as terribly as world war i , which began 100 years ago this month .	world war i , which began 100 years ago this month , destroyed it completely and terribly .
disillusion	disappointment	NN	disillusion	disappointment	16	8	world war i was unique for the art it inspired , and for the art 's disillusion with war itself ; winners and losers both despaired .	it was also unique for the art 's disappointment with war itself .
discontent	disappointment	NN	discontent	disappointment	16	8	world war i was unique for the art it inspired , and for the art 's discontent with war itself .	it was also unique for the art 's disappointment with war itself .
blinded	blind	JJ	blinded	blind	7	9	his 20-foot-long painting '' gassed '' shows blinded soldiers forming a procession .	his 20-foot-long painting '' gassed '' shows soldiers marching blind .
demonstrate	protest	VB	demonstrate	protest	11	9	the justice department will defend the right of protesters to peacefully demonstrate and for the media to cover a story that must be told .	the justice department will defend the right to peacefully protest .
looting	theft	NN	looting	theft	3	3	but violence and looting from businesses can not be allowed .	but violence and theft can not be allowed .
theft	stealing	NN	theft	stealing	3	2	but violence and theft can not be allowed .	violence and stealing can not be allowed .
people	men	NNS	people	man	5	5	and police forces should include people from all groups and races , and look like the communities they serve .	and police forces should include men and women from different groups and races .
dialogue	conversation	NN	dialogue	conversation	20	16	and it is painfully clear , in cities and circumstances across our great nation , that more progress , more dialogue , and more action are needed .	and it is painfully clear , across our great nation , that more progress , more conversation , and more action are needed .
dialogue	talk	NN	dialogue	talk	20	15	and it is painfully clear , in cities and circumstances across our great nation , that more progress , more dialogue , and more action are needed .	it is painfully clear , across our great nation , that more progress , more talk , and more action are needed .
contact	call	VB	contact	call	11	10	and i urge anyone with information related to the shooting to contact the fbi by dialing 800-call-fbi , option 4 .	and i urge anyone with information about the shooting to call the fbi by dialing 800-call-fbi , option 4 .
decades-long	decades-old	JJ	decades-long	decades-old	10	11	the pictures have brought home a debate over whether the decades-long flow of military-grade equipment to the nation 's police departments has gone too far .	the images symbolized what many have been debating : whether the decades-old practice of donating military equipment to the nation 's police departments has gone too far .
military-grade	military	JJ	military-grade	military	13	15	the pictures have brought home a debate over whether the decades-long flow of military-grade equipment to the nation 's police departments has gone too far .	the images symbolized what many have been debating : whether the decades-old practice of donating military equipment to the nation 's police departments has gone too far .
upsurge	increase	NN	upsurge	increase	10	4	that debate fits into a larger pattern : a huge upsurge of mayhem in the 1970s and 1980s led to tough-on-crime measures across the country .	there was a huge increase in violence in the 1970s and 1980s .
goods	items	NNS	goods	item	1	1	the goods come free of charge except for the cost of picking them up .	the items are free of charge except for the cost of picking them up .
apparent	obvious	JJ	apparent	obvious	8	7	in some cases , the pitfalls become quickly apparent .	in some cases , the problems become obvious very quickly .
equipment	gear	NN	equipment	gear	10	6	still , he and other police experts said that military-grade equipment has an important role when used properly .	other police experts said that military-style gear has an important role .
gear	equipment	NN	gear	equipment	6	8	other police experts said that military-style gear has an important role .	still , other police experts said that military-grade equipment has an important role .
semen	sperm	NN	semen	sperm	8	7	in the past , attempts to freeze elephant semen samples for artificial insemination were not successful .	scientists had tried to use frozen elephant sperm in the past , but were not successful .
crucial	essential	JJ	crucial	essential	10	10	getting wild genetics into the international zoo population may be crucial to the survival of the species , said theison .	getting wild genetics into the international zoo population may be essential to the survival of the species , theison said .
leadership	head	NN	leadership	head	7	10	jackson 's prolific breeding and baker 's leadership in project frozen dumbo have put the pittsburgh zoo near the vanguard of the elephant conservation movement .	project frozen dumbo has put the pittsburgh zoo near the head of the elephant conservation movement .
traditionally	generally	RB	traditionally	generally	12	12	those realities may be what 's shifting the debate in states that traditionally opposed any immigration restructuring .	those realities may be what 's changing minds in states that have generally opposed allowing in more immigrants .
generally	often	RB	generally	often	12	10	those realities may be what 's changing minds in states that have generally opposed allowing in more immigrants .	the situation may be changing minds in states that have often been against allowing more immigrants .
budget	cost	NN	budget	cost	2	2	with a budget of about $ 500 , their robot is made of donated items and whatever they had lying around .	their robot cost about $ 500 to make .
television	tv	NN	television	tv	21	20	they discussed trauma counseling and how to address the stress students might bring to class after watching the nighttime clashes on television or witnessing it firsthand .	they also talked about how to deal with students ' feelings after watching the clashes between protesters and police on tv .
play	take	VB	play	take	15	15	for a couple of minutes , they talked about the kinds of discussions that might play out in classrooms .	for a couple of minutes , they talked about the kinds of discussions that might take place in classrooms .
discuss	talk	VB	discuss	talk	12	6	she talks about it with friends , and she would like to discuss it in class .	she said she would like to talk about what 's going on in ferguson .
cohesion	unity	NN	cohesion	unity	8	12	those backing the laws say they preserve cultural cohesion and offer immigrants economic mobility , because learning english is the best way for new immigrants to succeed .	those backing english as the official language say the law helps preserve unity .
enact	pass	VB	enact	pass	10	12	california would be the second state after new york to enact a law requiring the translations on all prescription bottles .	california would be the second state , after new york , to pass a law requiring translations on all prescription bottles .
inaccurate	wrong	JJ	inaccurate	wrong	3	3	some worry about inaccurate translations or errors in communicating across languages , but those who support the idea see it as a matter of safety and necessity .	some worry about wrong translations or errors in communicating across languages .
adopt	make	VB	adopt	make	9	8	supporters continue to push more states and cities to adopt english language laws .	they are asking more states and cities to make english their official language .
only	n't	RB	only	not	9	12	just a few years ago , she said , only about 50 percent of americans knew what als is .	just a few years ago , she said , the disease was n't that well known .
give	specify	VB	give	specify	14	4	how to deal with repeat offenses is n't spelled out in the policy to give more latitude to officers and school officials .	the policy does n't specify how to deal with students who repeatedly break the rules .
latitude	flexibility	NN	latitude	flexibility	16	6	how to deal with repeat offenses is n't spelled out in the policy to give more latitude to officers and school officials .	the new guidelines give school officials flexibility to deal with students who repeatedly break rules .
shade	tone	NN	shade	tone	3	6	they range in shade from pale to deepest ebony , and come from 22 different countries , from iran to egypt to morocco .	yet , they range in skin tone from pale to deepest ebony .
category	box	NN	category	box	19	16	today , members of the mena community are asking the census bureau to create a separate '' mena '' category for the 2020 count .	the mena community is now asking the census bureau to create a separate '' mena '' box for the 2020 count .
ever	always	RB	ever	always	3	6	race is an ever shifting , ever evolving concept in america .	race is an idea that is always changing .
citizenship	citizen	NN	citizenship	citizen	23	23	because he was born in lebanon , the united states considered him to be of '' chinese-mongolian '' ancestry and therefore ineligible for citizenship .	because he was born in lebanon , the united states considered him to be '' chinese-mongolian '' and not qualified to be a citizen .
test	try	VB	test	try	5	4	the bureau is planning to test a new category in 2015 and 2016 .	the census bureau will try a mena category starting in 2015 .
property	building	NN	property	building	9	4	the work was completed years ago on the 104-year-old property .	the 104-year-old alexandria square building was one building that got retrofitted .
facade	front	NN	facade	front	14	4	the building still stood , but the upper-right of the building 's handsome sandstone facade had crashed to the sidewalk in a pile of rubble .	part of the sandstone front of the building crashed to the sidewalk .
become	turn	VBP	become	turn	4	4	moments later , they become serious as they talk about palestinian hip-hop , discussing the war between palestinians and israelis in the palestinian territory of gaza .	moments later , they turn more serious as they play palestinian hip-hop .
become	get	VBP	become	get	4	1	moments later , they become serious as they talk about palestinian hip-hop , discussing the war between palestinians and israelis in the palestinian territory of gaza .	they get more serious when they play palestinian hip-hop .
discontented	unhappy	JJ	discontented	unhappy	15	13	the duo are among several lebanese graffiti artists and rappers trying to reach out to discontented youth .	the duo are among several lebanese graffiti artists and rappers trying to reach unhappy youth .
spate	wave	NN	spate	wave	11	9	ashekman 's latest graffiti mural appeared in response to the recent spate of suicide bombings that shook lebanon .	ashekman 's latest graffiti mural responds to the recent wave of suicide bombings that shook lebanon .
inventory	list	NN	inventory	list	1	1	the inventory will create baseline information to help guide conservation decisions at imperiled sites where human culture and island ecosystems have a shared history .	the list will create baseline information to help guide conservation decisions at sites that are in danger .
effort	work	NN	effort	work	6	6	the archaeological assessment is a combined effort by the smithsonian institution , the university of oregon , chumash tribal leaders and the nature conservancy .	four groups have joined in the work : the smithsonian institution , the university of oregon , chumash tribal leaders and the nature conservancy .
near	immediate	JJ	near	immediate	18	4	those sites contain significant archaeological resources and are in danger of being destroyed by rising seas in the near term .	they also are in immediate danger of being destroyed by rising seas .
diverse	varied	JJ	diverse	varied	8	8	the island is relatively large and has a diverse , roadless terrain .	the island is relatively large and has a varied , roadless terrain .
slow-running	slow	JJ	slow-running	slow	12	18	for $ 25 , he would remotely log on to people 's slow-running computers and help the computers run faster .	for $ 25 , he would remotely log on to people 's computers , which were running too slow , and help them perform better .
concern	issue	NN	concern	issue	9	8	because bitcoins are all-digital , security is a prime concern .	because of that , safety is a big issue .
correctly	right	RB	correctly	right	6	15	on the video test , they correctly named an average of 26 percent of the emotional states at the beginning of camp .	on the video test , they got about two out of 10 of the feelings right at first .
test	control	NN	test	control	5	14	the researchers gave the same test to 54 sixth-graders from the same school who had not yet attended the camp .	fifty-four sixth-graders from the same school who did not go to camp were the control group .
marijuana	pot	NN	marijuana	pot	2	10	a positive marijuana test , meanwhile , may have triggered a yearlong ban for browns wide receiver josh gordon .	for browns wide receiver josh gordon , meanwhile , smoking pot may lead to a far harsher punishment a yearlong ban .
personal	individual	JJ	personal	individual	5	11	domestic violence , covered under personal conduct , has been left to the discretion of the commissioner .	it has been left up to the commissioner to deal with individual cases as he sees fit .
become	take	VB	become	take	14	3	many of them hoped to be part of a day that many believed would become part of the history of blacks and whites in america .	they wanted to take part in a day that could become a turning point in the history of blacks and whites in america .
feel	think	VB	feel	think	17	8	a survey conducted after brown 's killing found that whites are far more likely than blacks to feel that police will treat people of both races equally .	whites are far more likely than blacks to think that police treat both races equally .
police	officer	NN	police	officer	10	3	authorities say wilson , 28 , who has been a police officer for six years , fired in self-defense after brown attacked him .	officials say the officer , darren wilson , fired in self-defense after brown attacked him .
proposal	project	NN	proposal	project	9	9	almost every week it seems there 's a new proposal near the 70,000-acre park , naylor said .	almost every week it seems there 's a new project planned near the 70,000-acre park , naylor said .
sweet	beautiful	JJ	sweet	beautiful	26	6	as naylor eased a hybrid suv up the park 's north unit scenic drive , she pointed to a boundary fence amid fields of grasses and sweet clover .	naylor drives her suv through a beautiful area .
drive	car	NN	drive	car	13	3	as naylor eased a hybrid suv up the park 's north unit scenic drive , she pointed to a boundary fence amid fields of grasses and sweet clover .	naylor drives her car through a beautiful area .
boundary	border	NN	boundary	border	19	8	as naylor eased a hybrid suv up the park 's north unit scenic drive , she pointed to a boundary fence amid fields of grasses and sweet clover .	she points to a fence that marks the border of the park .
negotiating	negotiation	NN	negotiating	negotiation	7	7	eventually , after months of paperwork and negotiating , the company agreed to move the project 2 miles away .	eventually , after months of paperwork and negotiation , the company agreed to move the pump further away .
negotiation	discussion	NN	negotiation	discussion	7	7	eventually , after months of paperwork and negotiation , the company agreed to move the pump further away .	eventually , after months of paperwork and discussion , the company agreed to move the pump .
spoil	ruin	VB	spoil	ruin	8	6	oil pumpers and more flares and traffic would spoil the grandeur , hornfeldt said .	more oil drilling and traffic would ruin the beauty , she said .
picture	photograph	NN	picture	photograph	2	1	when that picture appeared on the july cover of fashion magazine elle uk , which was published june 5 , the backlash on social media was instant .	the photograph appeared on the july cover of fashion magazine elle uk , which was published june 5 .
photograph	picture	NN	photograph	picture	1	1	the photograph appeared on the july cover of fashion magazine elle uk , which was published june 5 .	the picture appeared on the july cover of fashion magazine elle uk june 5 .
diversity	range	NN	diversity	range	1	1	this diversity could be seen on a warm , windy saturday in early june at the prairie band potawatomi nation 's annual powwow .	this range of styles could be seen on a warm , windy saturday in early june at the prairie band potawatomi nation 's powwow .
supermarket	store	NN	supermarket	store	4	3	at a ralph 's supermarket in brentwood , james mcmenamin , 27 , considered nixing his bacon purchase after double-checking the price tag .	at a grocery store , james mcmenamin checked the price of bacon .
firearm	gun	NN	firearm	gun	1	1	a firearm on full automatic fire shoots bullets in a steady stream while the trigger is pressed .	a gun on full automatic shoots bullets in a steady stream .
exercise	practice	VB	exercise	practice	17	4	tom , who practiced with an m1 garand rifle , said he shoots for sport and to exercise his second amendment rights .	he also wants to practice his second amendment rights .
shot	fire	NN	shot	fire	19	9	across town at the marksman pistol institute i , instructor sean yeandle said he had never seen an uzi shot at his range by anyone under 21 .	he has never seen anyone under 21 years old fire an uzi there .
stay	stand	VB	stay	stand	8	3	at the range an instructor makes sure to stay behind the shooter for safety and to keep control of the gun .	a teacher must stand behind the child for safety and to keep control of the gun .
wilderness	nature	NN	wilderness	nature	25	13	when he came to washington for a program on conservation , the state 's national parks and deserts were his first real encounters with the wilderness .	this summer , he came to washington state for a program on protecting nature .
ecological	environmental	JJ	ecological	environmental	20	21	they may approach a problem with a limited understanding of how different communities are affected by the potential solutions to ecological problems .	the lack of diversity means they may not be able to fully understand how different communities are affected by solutions to environmental problems .
mathematics	math	NN	mathematics	math	13	10	the group also included students majoring in film studies , mechanical engineering , mathematics , business and economics .	the group also included students studying film , engineering , math and business .
program	time	NN	program	time	2	3	during the program , the students crisscrossed washington state .	the students spent time traveling through washington .
college	university	NN	college	university	0	5	college dean lisa graumlich said the program has another benefit .	lisa graumlich is with the university .
migrant	immigrant	JJ	migrant	immigrant	19	19	for example , the students visited an organic apple farm , and met an older white farmer who employed migrant workers to pick his fruit .	for example , the students visited an organic apple farm , and met an older white farmer who employed immigrant workers to pick his fruit .
normal	typical	JJ	normal	typical	6	11	but this was not an entirely normal first day of school .	but despite balloons and cheerful signs , this was not a typical first day of school .
typical	normal	JJ	typical	normal	11	11	but despite balloons and cheerful signs , this was not a typical first day of school .	despite balloons and cheerful signs , this was not an entirely normal first day of school .
chief	head	NN	chief	head	7	5	daniel can also identify israel 's army chief of staff and the top hamas political leaders .	daniel can also identify the head of the israeli army and the top hamas political leaders .
important	key	JJ	important	key	19	7	education minister shay piron insisted monday that the move would not harm core education programs , teaching hours or important programs .	he insisted the cuts would not harm key school programs or shorten the school day .
issue	point	NN	issue	point	1	2	the issue is that at least some horses cross into the island 's currituck national wildlife refuge , although the most sensitive parts are fenced off .	the sticking point is that at least some horses cross into the island 's currituck national wildlife refuge , although the most sensitive parts are fenced off .
lapd	police	NN	lapd	police	15	16	the plan originated with steve soboroff , president of the civilian commission that oversees the lapd .	the plan originated with steve soboroff , president of the commission that oversees the los angeles police department .
research	investigation	NN	research	investigation	15	14	richard norris , 55 , a biologist , and james norris , 59 , a research engineer , launched their '' slithering stones research initiative '' in 2011 .	richard norris , 55 , and james norris , 59 both scientists launched their investigation of the moving stones mystery in 2011 .
once-free	free	JJ	once-free	free	24	21	that squeeze is only the latest frustration for travelers , already weary of security hassles and charges for checked baggage , food and other once-free services .	travelers were already angry about security hassles and being charged for baggage and meals and other things that used to be free .
device	tool	NN	device	tool	12	9	a united airlines flight was grounded when a passenger installed a plastic device known as a knee defender .	a passenger on a united airlines flight used a tool called a knee defender .
prevent	stop	VB	prevent	stop	15	16	a growing number of people now believe that traditional criminal justice models are failing to prevent offenders from committing crimes again .	a growing number of people now believe that traditional criminal justice models are not helping to stop offenders from committing crimes again .
make	pay	VB	make	pay	4	4	the goal was to make the needs of victims central , and by doing so effect broader healing for all , communities included .	the goal was to pay close attention to the needs of the victims .
disparate	different	JJ	disparate	different	19	18	critics of restorative justice contend the process is too subjective and could lead to proposed remedies that are wildly disparate .	critics of restorative justice say the process is subjective and could lead to proposed remedies that are wildly different .
bereaved-father-turned-restorative-justice-proponent	restorative	JJ	bereaved-father-turned-restorative-justice-proponent	restorative	12	11	the oakland-based architect was working for a big firm when she heard bereaved-father-turned-restorative-justice-proponent azim khamisa on a podcast and was deeply moved .	she was working for a big firm when she heard a restorative justice supporter named azim khamisa on a podcast .
outcome	result	NN	outcome	result	23	21	so she told them : the traditional system is like a boxing ring , with a winner and loser and outsiders determining the outcome .	she told them the traditional system is like a boxing ring , with a winner and loser and outsiders determining the result .
infection	disease	NN	infection	disease	21	10	the amoeba has strategies to evade the immune system , and treatment options are meager partly because of how fast the infection progresses .	the amoeba has ways to slip past the body 's disease defenses , or immune system .
manual	guide	NN	manual	guide	11	11	earlier this year , she ordered the first '' minecraft '' manual offered by scholastic .	earlier this year , she ordered the first '' minecraft '' guide .
widespread	common	JJ	widespread	common	9	9	a new study of wolves suggests it is more widespread among animals than experts had realized .	a new study of wolves suggests it is more common among animals than experts had realized .
yawning	yawn	NN	yawning	yawn	4	5	in people , contagious yawning is more common among those who get high scores on empathy tests .	in people , catching a yawn is more common among those who get high scores on empathy tests .
yawn	yawning	NN	yawn	yawning	11	6	the scientists found that the wolves were indeed more likely to yawn after another wolf near them had yawned .	the scientists found that one wolf yawning could make another wolf yawn .
oldest	earliest	JJS	oldest	earliest	16	1	he also found evidence of a chemical that comes from sea sponges on some of the oldest pieces of cloth .	the earliest cloth samples also had traces of a chemical that comes from sea sponges .
screen	touch-screen	NN	screen	touch-screen	22	12	by using sapphire , one of the hardest minerals in the world after diamond , apple could give consumers a much tougher screen .	by using sapphire , apple could give iphone users a much tougher touch-screen .
toughness	hardness	NN	toughness	hardness	1	1	its toughness could be a strong selling point .	the hardness of sapphire could be a strong selling point for customers .
tiny	little	JJ	tiny	little	22	14	although many young children have an affinity for technology , touch-screen devices with glass screens do not always pick up on their tiny fingers , hsu said .	although many young children love technology , glass touch-screens have trouble picking up their little fingers , hsu said .
assess	consider	VBP	assess	consider	10	10	analysts say smartphone manufacturers will be watching apple as they assess whether to use sapphire in their own devices .	analysts say smartphone manufacturers will be watching apple as they consider whether to use sapphire in their own devices .
crucial	key	JJ	crucial	key	15	15	studies from the past 20 years have shown that a good night 's sleep is crucial for both emotional and physical health .	studies from the past 20 years have shown that a good night 's sleep is key for both emotional and physical health .
gigantic	giant	JJ	gigantic	giant	12	12	what 's more , at the time of its death , the gigantic creature was still growing .	what 's more , at the time of its death , the giant creature was still growing .
truly	really	RB	truly	really	1	1	the truly thrilling part was that there were so many bones .	the really thrilling part was that there were so many bones .
museo	museum	NN	museo	museum	7	7	the fossils will ultimately reside in the museo padre molina in rio gallegos , argentina , not far from where they were discovered .	the fossils will ultimately reside in a museum in argentina , not far from where they were discovered .
close	almost	RB	close	almost	2	2	having so close to a complete skeleton will allow scientists to better understand how these enormous animals moved around .	having an almost complete skeleton will allow scientists to better understand how these enormous animals moved around .
colossal	huge	JJ	colossal	huge	14	3	the animals would have had to eat almost all the time to sustain their colossal bodies .	to feed their huge bodies , dreadnoughtus would have had to eat almost all the time .
ensure	provide	VB	ensure	provide	3	4	but it will ensure that supplies are maintained at the hospital and will provide the periodic support needed to keep it functioning for up to 180 days .	the troops will also provide any support needed to keep the hospital functioning for up to 180 days .
manufacture	make	VB	manufacture	make	12	5	now , the tables are turning and chinese companies are looking to manufacture in the united states .	chinese companies are looking to make fabric in the united states .
land	country	NN	land	country	25	14	lately , though , chinese textile companies have been stressed by competition within its borders and by its rising costs of labor , power and land .	lately , though , chinese textile companies have been stressed by competition within the country .
commerce	business	NN	commerce	business	5	4	previously , the department of commerce worked on just three to five chinese investment projects every year .	previously , south carolina business authorities worked on just three to five chinese projects every year .
deliberation	debate	NN	deliberation	debate	8	8	the president 's announcements follow a summer of deliberation at the white house over how to respond to the violent islamic state militants .	the president 's announcements follow a summer of debate at the white house over how to respond to the violent isil militants .
proceed	go	VB	proceed	go	5	3	officials said obama plans to proceed with both the broader airstrikes in iraq and the strikes in syria without seeking new authorization from congress .	obama plans to go ahead with the airstrikes in iraq and syria .
saga	story	NN	saga	story	1	4	the saga , which betsalel is turning into a documentary titled '' rendezvous at erasmus , '' is every bit as spellbinding as the fairy tales klemke illustrated .	betsalel is turning the story into a documentary .
survive	escape	VB	survive	escape	1	6	to survive the nazis , van perlstein needed documents showing that he was half aryan , and he asked gerhardt for help .	van perlstein needed certain documents to escape the nazis .
consummate	perfect	JJ	consummate	perfect	9	8	and yet klemke , whose artwork made him a consummate storyteller , never talked about that stage of his life , not in dozens of interviews or speeches .	yet klemke , whose artwork made him a perfect storyteller , never talked about that stage of his life , not in dozens of interviews or speeches .
prosecution	trial	NN	prosecution	trial	20	13	the documents were letters from jews he had helped save , testifying to his efforts in case he ever faced prosecution for having been a nazi soldier .	the letters told about his efforts in case he ever was put on trial for having been a nazi soldier .
court	trial	NN	court	trial	12	13	the letters told about his efforts in case he ever went to court for having been a nazi soldier .	the letters told about his efforts in case he ever was put on trial for having been a nazi soldier .
reason	motivation	NN	reason	motivation	2	2	whatever the reason , the german newspaper sueddeutsche zeitung recently noted the incredible twist to his story .	whatever the motivation , the german newspaper sueddeutsche zeitung recently noted the strange twist to his story .
thaw	melting	NN	thaw	melting	2	5	the permafrost thaw creates an even worse situation on steep ground : slumps , which are like slow-moving mudslides .	on steep ground , the melting permafrost has even more serious effects .
thaw	thawing	NN	thaw	thawing	9	5	most of the greenhouse gases released by this arctic thaw will be co2 .	along with methane , the thawing in the arctic will also release co2 carbon dioxide .
co2	carbon	NN	co2	carbon	12	7	most of the greenhouse gases released by this arctic thaw will be co2 .	the thawing in the arctic will release carbon dioxide , too .
persist	remain	VBP	persist	remain	14	12	there are attempts to expand the monitoring of the arctic , but huge gaps persist because of its vast extent and harsh conditions .	scientists continue to expand monitoring of the arctic , but huge gaps remain because of the huge land area and harsh conditions .
harsh	difficult	JJ	harsh	difficult	21	20	there are attempts to expand the monitoring of the arctic , but huge gaps persist because of its vast extent and harsh conditions .	scientists continue to expand monitoring of the arctic , but huge gaps remain because of the huge land area and difficult conditions .
persist	continue	VBP	persist	continue	14	1	there are attempts to expand the monitoring of the arctic , but huge gaps persist because of its vast extent and harsh conditions .	scientists continue to study the arctic , but it 's difficult because of the huge area and harsh conditions .
difficult	harsh	JJ	difficult	harsh	20	17	scientists continue to expand monitoring of the arctic , but huge gaps remain because of the huge land area and difficult conditions .	scientists continue to study the arctic , but it 's difficult because of the huge area and harsh conditions .
harsh	tough	JJ	harsh	tough	21	6	there are attempts to expand the monitoring of the arctic , but huge gaps persist because of its vast extent and harsh conditions .	because of the huge area and tough conditions , that has been difficult .
difficult	tough	JJ	difficult	tough	20	6	scientists continue to expand monitoring of the arctic , but huge gaps remain because of the huge land area and difficult conditions .	because of the huge area and tough conditions , that has been difficult .
survivor	victim	NN	survivor	victim	6	6	their premise is that a rape survivor , for instance , might legitimately prefer to have some warning before encountering a graphic description of sexual assault .	their premise is that a rape victim , for instance , might rightly prefer to have some warning before encountering a vivid description of sexual assault .
legitimately	rightly	RB	legitimately	rightly	12	12	their premise is that a rape survivor , for instance , might legitimately prefer to have some warning before encountering a graphic description of sexual assault .	their premise is that a rape victim , for instance , might rightly prefer to have some warning before encountering a vivid description of sexual assault .
intriguing	fascinating	JJ	intriguing	fascinating	10	10	unlike most faculty , though , i found the idea intriguing .	unlike most professors , though , i found the idea fascinating .
essay	article	NN	essay	article	8	5	a few weeks ago i wrote a short essay on the subject for the online newspaper inside higher ed .	recently , i wrote an article on trigger warnings for an online newspaper .
terminology	term	NN	terminology	term	6	5	second , that despite the unfamiliar terminology , trigger warnings may not represent a huge departure from what we as professors are already doing .	second , that despite the term '' trigger warnings '' being unfamiliar , it may not be a huge change from what we as professors are already doing .
substantial	considerable	JJ	substantial	considerable	13	13	and third , that even minor adjustments to teaching practice can have a substantial positive impact on the classroom environment .	and third , that even minor adjustments to teaching practice can have a considerable positive effect in the classroom .
significant	considerable	JJ	significant	considerable	13	13	and third , that even minor adjustments to teaching practice can have a significant positive effect on the classroom environment .	and third , that even minor adjustments to teaching practice can have a considerable positive effect in the classroom .
considerable	large	JJ	considerable	large	13	13	and third , that even minor adjustments to teaching practice can have a considerable positive effect in the classroom .	and third , that even small changes to teaching practice can have a large positive effect in the classroom .
enhance	boost	VB	enhance	boost	3	3	this could even enhance freedom of inquiry while protecting emotional well-being .	this could even boost the freedom to explore ideas in classrooms while protecting emotional well-being .
spectrum	range	NN	spectrum	range	8	6	first , as critics from across the political spectrum have averred , it is impossible to determine in advance what material merits a warning .	first , as critics from a range of political views have asserted , it is impossible to determine in advance what material merits a warning .
rationale	reasoning	NN	rationale	reasoning	4	4	most important , the rationale for formal trigger warnings is inimical to the purposes of education .	most important , the reasoning behind formal trigger warnings is contrary to the purposes of education .
inimical	contrary	JJ	inimical	contrary	10	10	most important , the rationale for formal trigger warnings is inimical to the purposes of education .	most important , the reasoning behind formal trigger warnings is contrary to the purposes of education .
rationale	reason	NN	rationale	reason	4	4	most important , the rationale for formal trigger warnings is inimical to the purposes of education .	most important , the reason for formal trigger warnings is contrary to the purposes of education .
reasoning	reason	NN	reasoning	reason	4	4	most important , the reasoning behind formal trigger warnings is contrary to the purposes of education .	most important , the reason for formal trigger warnings is contrary to the purposes of education .
paramount	essential	JJ	paramount	essential	23	18	and civic education must prepare students to be mentally strong enough to handle the rigors associated with the clash of ideas that is paramount to a free society .	and education must prepare students to be mentally strong enough to handle the clash of ideas that is essential to a free society .
somali-american	somali	JJ	somali-american	somali	7	6	but criticism has also come from the somali-american community itself .	other criticism has come from the somali community .
cookout	barbecue	NN	cookout	barbecue	4	4	walking to a community cookout at a housing complex , mohamed runs into a high school classmate , nada mohamed , also wearing a hijab .	walking through a community barbecue at a housing complex , mohamed runs into a high school friend , nada mohamed , who is also wearing a hijab .
unimaginable	unthinkable	JJ	unimaginable	unthinkable	14	14	one thing she 's not afraid of is arresting a somali man , an unimaginable scenario for many in the male-dominated culture .	she 's not afraid of arresting a somali man , something that would be unthinkable in traditional somali male-dominated culture .
movement	trend	NN	movement	trend	6	7	so , too , is a movement among native americans across the nation to improve their health by rediscovering ancestral foods and connections to lands once lost .	so , too , is a new trend that is spreading among native americans across the nation .
parcel	piece	NN	parcel	piece	16	13	more people are realizing '' they can grow a significant amount of vegetables on a small parcel of land , '' she said .	more people are realizing they can grow a lot even on a small piece of land .
acute	severe	JJ	acute	severe	15	18	through food , she wanted to '' help our community and other native communities address acute and chronic conditions , '' she said .	through food , she wanted to '' help our community and other native communities '' deal with a severe health crisis , she said .
formidable	daunting	JJ	formidable	daunting	5	5	reversing that trend remains a formidable challenge .	reversing that trend remains a daunting challenge .
indigenous	local	JJ	indigenous	local	16	10	now in its fifth growing season , the 12-acre wozupi has an orchard with trees bearing indigenous fruits june berries , elderberries and wild plums .	the 12-acre wozupi now has an orchard filled with fruits local to the region june berries , elderberries and wild plums .
grow	plant	VB	grow	plant	12	6	plans are underway to add a greenhouse that would allow them to grow more of the fruits and vegetables traditionally native to the area .	having that would allow them to plant more heritage fruits and vegetables .
legend	story	NN	legend	story	1	1	baseball legend says the game was invented in 1839 by abner doubleday in cooperstown , new york .	the story was that doubleday invented it in cooperstown , new york .
old	old-fashioned	JJ	old	old-fashioned	14	7	those bylaws were frequently revised , giving today 's vintage teams a variety of old rulebooks to choose from .	therefore , today 's vintage , or old-fashioned , teams have a variety of old rulebooks to choose from .
comprise	include	VBP	comprise	include	8	8	his teammates , called '' ballists , '' comprise a range of ages , athletic ability and occupations .	his teammates , called '' ballists , '' include a range of ages , athletic ability and occupations .
group	association	NN	group	association	10	14	he estimated dozens of other teams are unaffiliated with the group .	he figures there are dozens of other teams that are not part of the association .
inclined	likely	JJ	inclined	likely	4	10	younger voters are more inclined to back independence and their elders tend to say they want to remain in the united kingdom .	there 's a generation gap : younger voters are more likely to be for independence .
pivotal	key	JJ	pivotal	key	8	8	residency controversies are dogging senate candidates in several pivotal states : alaska , arkansas , kansas , louisiana and new hampshire .	residency controversies are following senate candidates in several key states : alaska , arkansas , kansas , louisiana and new hampshire .
favorable	positive	JJ	favorable	positive	8	7	just about 14 percent of voters have a favorable view of congress , while roughly 70 percent of voters think the country is on the wrong track .	just about 14 percent of voters have positive thoughts about congress .
track	direction	NN	track	direction	22	10	congress ' approval ratings are hovering around 14 percent , while roughly 70 percent of voters see the country on the wrong track .	most voters think the country is going in the wrong direction .
politics	policies	NNS	politics	policy	9	14	sarah binder is an expert on congress and legislative politics at the brookings institute , a washington think tank and research institute .	she works at the brookings institute , a washington think tank that researches government policies .
home	district	NN	home	district	4	13	the senator owns no home in kansas and was registered to vote at the home of a constituent , where , roberts said , he paid rent .	he was registered to vote at the home of a person in his district , where , roberts said , he paid rent .
senator	senate	NN	senator	senate	1	13	the senator owns no home in kansas and was registered to vote at the home of a constituent , where , roberts said , he paid rent .	he was registered to vote at the home of a person in his senate district , where , roberts said , he paid rent .
senate	senator	NN	senate	senator	13	9	republican representative tom cotton , who 's in a neck-and-neck race for the senate against democratic incumbent mark pryor , does n't own property in the state .	tom cotton , a republican , is running against senator mark pryor , a democrat .
show	highlight	VB	show	highlight	18	19	pryor features his father , david pryor , a former governor and senator , in an ad to show his ties to the state .	pryor also features his father , david pryor , a former governor and senator , in an ad to highlight his own connection to the state .
executive	head	NN	executive	head	7	4	clay barker , the kansas republican party executive director , said this should n't be an issue for voters .	clay barker is the head of the kansas republican party .
board	wooden-board	NN	board	wooden-board	0	0	board walkways traverse the sand and dirt between the shelters , but the stifling heat and frequent wind gusts make it nearly impossible to stay clean .	wooden-board walkways crisscross the sand and dirt between the shelters .
ordinary	regular	JJ	ordinary	regular	9	6	many of the refugees claimed the pro-russia fighters were ordinary citizens fighting to protect russians in ukraine .	they say the rebels are just regular people who are fighting to protect russians who live in ukraine .
goods	supplies	NNS	goods	supplies	10	9	the group gives out baby food , diapers and other goods .	it gives out baby food , diapers and other supplies .
hometown	home	NN	hometown	home	13	12	the young couple was headed to samara , about 650 miles from their hometown .	the young couple was headed to a town 650 miles from their home , where they do not know anyone .
smoker	smoking	NN	smoker	smoking	10	0	a 45 - to 60-minute hookah session can expose the smoker to about the same amount of nicotine and tar as one pack of cigarettes , eissenberg says .	smoking hookah for 45 minutes gives off the same amount of nicotine and tar as a pack of cigarettes , says eissenberg .
skull	head	NN	skull	head	10	8	its nostrils were small and pushed far up on its skull ideal for breathing while partly submerged .	its small nostrils were far up on its head perfect for breathing while mostly underwater .
rupture	breakup	NN	rupture	breakup	4	4	the decision prevented a rupture of a 307-year union with england , bringing a huge sigh of relief to the british political establishment .	the decision prevented a breakup of a 307-year union with england , bringing a huge sigh of relief to britain 's long-standing political leaders .
english-as-a-second-language	english	JJ	english-as-a-second-language	english	6	4	school districts have had to add english-as-a-second-language programs , or esl , to help new immigrants .	school districts are adding english as a second language , or esl , programs and preparing for more students .
turmoil	disorder	NN	turmoil	disorder	12	12	many of these students , moreno said , are fleeing countries in turmoil and need counseling and other social services .	many of these students , moreno said , are fleeing countries in disorder and need counseling and other social services .
turmoil	disarray	NN	turmoil	disarray	12	14	many of these students , moreno said , are fleeing countries in turmoil and need counseling and other social services .	many of these students , moreno said , are fleeing countries that are in disarray and they need counseling and other social services .
disorder	disarray	NN	disorder	disarray	12	14	many of these students , moreno said , are fleeing countries in disorder and need counseling and other social services .	many of these students , moreno said , are fleeing countries that are in disarray and they need counseling and other social services .
calculate	count	VB	calculate	count	14	14	dorie nolt , a department of education spokeswoman , said it 's hard to calculate the costs of educating immigrant children at a district or state level .	dorie nolt , a department of education spokeswoman , said it 's hard to count the costs of educating immigrant children at even a district level .
temporary	short-term	JJ	temporary	short-term	21	19	in the houston area , some counties and cities have recently passed resolutions condemning federal efforts to house migrant children in temporary shelters .	in the houston area , some counties and cities have recently criticized federal efforts to house migrant children in short-term shelters .
fossilized	fossil	JJ	fossilized	fossil	12	12	during the last several centuries we have burned through eons worth of fossilized sunshine , changing the climate for our fellow species .	during the last several centuries we have burned through eons worth of fossil fuels , like oil , coal and natural gas .
normal	usual	JJ	normal	usual	14	11	other recent studies suggest that species are becoming extinct roughly 1,000 times faster than normal throughout earth 's history .	other studies say species are becoming extinct 1,000 times faster than usual .
risk	danger	NN	risk	danger	21	16	the biggest , fiercest animals still left on the planet elephants , tigers , whales , among others are most at risk .	the biggest animals , like elephants , tigers , and whales , are in the most danger .
back	already	RB	back	already	3	4	fishes can bounce back when overfishing is stopped , just as maine haddock and washington state coho salmon both have .	salmon in washington state already have .
place	put	VB	place	put	8	8	bird-tracking data and satellite photos are used to place pop-up wetlands where they will do the most good .	bird-tracking information and satellite photos are used to put pop-up wetlands where they will do the most good .
farm	farmer	NN	farm	farmer	3	3	this week , farm manager jon munger was pushing to get fields harvested , prepared and flooded again by the next day .	this week , farmer jon munger is hard at work .
make	contain	VBP	make	contain	4	2	together , the companies make products that contain about a third of all the calories sold in america .	their foods contain one of out three calories sold in america .
healthful	healthy	JJ	healthful	healthy	7	17	but that does n't mean they 're healthful , several experts said .	they are selling more lower-calorie versions of popular products , but that does n't mean they 're healthy , several experts said .
longer	anymore	RB	longer	anymore	10	14	the group also noted that full-calorie soft drinks are no longer sold in schools .	the group also noted that full-calorie soft drinks are n't being sold in schools anymore .
revenue	income	NN	revenue	income	6	3	the push-pull between advertising and subscription revenue , though , is nothing new , according to media analyst ken doctor .	the push-pull between income from advertising and subscriptions , though , is nothing new , according to media analyst ken doctor .
launch	start	NN	launch	start	2	2	with the launch of wikipedia in 2001 , the writing was on the wall for encyclopedia britannica 's pricey leather-bound sets .	with the start of wikipedia in 2001 , the writing was on the wall for encyclopedia britannica .
editorial	editing	NN	editorial	editing	9	7	where britannica trumps wikipedia is through a '' rigorous editorial process , '' cauz said .	where britannica outclasses wikipedia is through its editing process , cauz said .
separately	apart	RB	separately	apart	6	4	traditionally , women and children lived separately from the men .	women and children lived apart from the men .
apart	separately	RB	apart	separately	4	3	women and children lived apart from the men .	men usually lived separately from women and children .
hard-frozen	frozen	JJ	hard-frozen	frozen	23	7	until the permafrost began melting and the edge of the tundra eroded into the sea , the old village was well-preserved in the hard-frozen earth .	the old village was well-preserved in the frozen earth .
phase	stage	NN	phase	stage	4	4	maven is the latest phase in an all-out scientific assault on mars .	maven is the latest stage in an effort aimed at increasing our understanding of mars .
incident	case	NN	incident	case	6	6	there has never been a recorded incident of a black bear killing a person in yosemite , or anywhere in california .	there has never been a known case of a black bear killing a person in yosemite , or anywhere in california .
household	house	NN	household	house	8	8	about 30,000 volunteers are supposed to visit every household in the country by sunday .	about 30,000 volunteers are supposed to visit every house in the country by sunday .
operate	work	VBP	operate	work	1	1	they operate in teams of four , each of which is expected to see 20 households a day .	they work in teams of four .
see	visit	VB	see	visit	13	5	they operate in teams of four , each of which is expected to see 20 households a day .	each team is expected to visit 20 houses a day .
communicate	share	VB	communicate	share	11	7	the effort also seeks to overcome fear and suspicion and to communicate information about the disease to the country 's 6 million citizens .	to do that , volunteers plan to share information about the disease with the country 's 6 million citizens .
unrealistic	realistic	JJ	unrealistic	realistic	15	16	however , critics have said that the program 's goal of reaching every household is unrealistic .	however , critics have said that the program 's goal of reaching every household is n't realistic .
know	tell	VB	know	tell	9	3	heritage , our common history , helps us to know who we are and where we come from , leventhal said .	our heritage can tell us who we are and where we come from .
secure	protect	VB	secure	protect	16	6	the syrians were taught how to protect museum collections during emergencies and were given supplies to secure pottery and library books .	the syrians were taught how to protect museums during emergencies and given supplies to protect important pottery and library books .
destruction	damage	NN	destruction	damage	13	6	experts are not as sure about the assad government 's role in the destruction , though it is the only group fighting the war that can use airstrikes .	experts are not sure how much damage was caused by assad 's government .
enormous	large	JJ	enormous	large	3	1	beijing china has enormous environmental problems .	beijing large street protests are breaking out in china .
severely	heavily	RB	severely	heavily	9	9	three-fourths of the nation 's lakes and rivers are severely polluted , according to the chinese academy of social sciences .	three-fourths of the nation 's lakes and rivers are heavily polluted .
deem	believe	VBP	deem	believe	16	17	but an increasing number are taking to the streets to protest projects in their communities they deem threatening .	still , a growing number are taking to the streets to protest projects in their communities they believe are threatening .
feel	believe	VBP	feel	believe	16	17	but an increasing number are taking to the streets to protest projects in their communities they feel are threatening .	still , a growing number are taking to the streets to protest projects in their communities they believe are threatening .
waste	garbage	NN	waste	garbage	12	12	some experts say incinerators are the best way to dispose of this waste , especially in crowded parts of china where landfill space is sparse .	some experts say incinerators are the best way to get rid of garbage .
garbage	waste	NN	garbage	waste	12	3	some experts say incinerators are the best way to get rid of garbage .	some experts say waste burners are actually good .
transparent	clear	JJ	transparent	clear	11	7	others , however , say the government has been less than transparent in monitoring emissions from big waste burners .	others say the government has not been clear with its numbers .
degradation	damage	NN	degradation	damage	19	13	shapiro , the american university professor , said it is encouraging to see chinese people standing together against further degradation of their air , water and soil .	shapiro said it is good to see chinese people coming together to fight damage to their air , water and soil .
educator	teacher	NN	educator	teacher	3	3	wilner was an educator with the university of new hampshire cooperative extension .	wilner was a teacher at the university of new hampshire cooperative extension .
vineyard	wine	NN	vineyard	wine	8	13	oregon extension , for example , brings together vineyard managers , winemakers and students for classes in person and online .	oregon 's brings together grape growers , winemakers and students interested in making wine .
population	community	NN	population	community	18	14	in southwestern kansas , extension has started 4-h clubs that use spanish and english for the large immigrant population there .	extension has started 4-h clubs that use spanish and english for the immigrant farming community there .
cost-free	free	JJ	cost-free	free	7	7	the spanish-language 4-h project was offered practically cost-free to people , because irsik , the dairy owner , wrote a check for $ 30,000 .	the spanish-language 4-h clubs were offered nearly free after a dairy owner donated $ 30,000 to pay for them .
practically	nearly	RB	practically	nearly	6	6	the spanish-language 4-h project was offered practically cost-free to people , because irsik , the dairy owner , wrote a check for $ 30,000 .	the spanish-language 4-h clubs were offered nearly free after a dairy owner donated $ 30,000 to pay for them .
dispute	challenge	VB	dispute	challenge	18	18	the detroit water and sewerage department -lrb- dwsd -rrb- never told her she could request a hearing to dispute the bill , peasant testified .	the detroit water and sewerage department -lrb- dwsd -rrb- never told her she could request a hearing to challenge the bill , peasant testified .
hearing	court	NN	hearing	court	8	8	peasant was the first witness in monday 's hearing before bankruptcy judge steven rhodes about detroit 's water shut-off policy .	peasant was the first witness in monday 's court case .
adequate	enough	JJ	adequate	enough	10	11	they argue that the city implemented shut-offs unfairly , without adequate notice and with little financial assistance for poor people who lack the means to pay .	they argue that the city shut off water unfairly and without enough notice to homeowners .
pay	give	VB	pay	give	25	12	they argue that the city implemented shut-offs unfairly , without adequate notice and with little financial assistance for poor people who lack the means to pay .	they argue that the city shut off water unfairly and did n't give homeowners enough notice .
discrepancy	difference	NN	discrepancy	difference	4	5	rhodes focused on this discrepancy and asked mccormick if it was legal to cut off service to delinquent customers without complying with rules on the website .	the judge focused on this difference between the rule and what actually happened .
site	location	NN	site	location	12	6	she was instrumental in selecting southern methodist university in dallas for the site .	she helped choose the library 's location and oversee its design .
reputation	image	NN	reputation	image	18	18	the chinese government had warned that the demonstrations could cause serious damage to hong kong 's economy and reputation as a stable asian financial hub .	the chinese government had warned that the demonstrations could cause serious damage to hong kong businesses and its image .
laudable	admirable	JJ	laudable	admirable	6	6	most parents would agree these are laudable goals .	most parents would agree these are admirable goals .
admirable	excellent	JJ	admirable	excellent	6	6	most parents would agree these are admirable goals .	most parents would agree these are excellent goals .
stall	stop	VB	stall	stop	14	8	some nutrition advocates see the influence of junk-food purveyors in the legislative efforts to stall or roll back the new standards .	health food supporters think junk-food sellers want to stop the new rules .
latest	newest	JJS	latest	newest	6	6	obama 's campaign is just the latest effort to make sure our kids eat right at school .	obama 's plan is just the newest effort to make sure our kids eat right at school .
apparent	seeming	JJ	apparent	seeming	3	3	the f-22 's apparent success is a dramatic turnaround from three years ago , when the fighter was grounded for nearly five months .	the f-22 's seeming success is a sharp turnaround from three years ago .
dramatic	sharp	JJ	dramatic	sharp	7	7	the f-22 's apparent success is a dramatic turnaround from three years ago , when the fighter was grounded for nearly five months .	the f-22 's seeming success is a sharp turnaround from three years ago .
fighter	plane	NN	fighter	plane	4	6	the sleek , diamond-winged fighter was conceived to thump a new generation of soviet jets in dogfights .	the idea was to make a plane that could beat a new generation of soviet jets in dogfights .
plane	jet	NN	plane	jet	6	5	the idea was to make a plane that could beat a new generation of soviet jets in dogfights .	the united states wanted a jet that could beat the one the soviets were building .
detect	sense	VB	detect	sense	22	18	it carries cutting-edge radar and sensors , supposedly enabling a pilot to track and shoot an enemy aircraft before that craft can detect the f-22 .	a pilot is supposed to be able to follow and shoot an enemy plane before that plane can sense the f-22 .
combat	fighter	NN	combat	fighter	8	11	the plane was originally intended to replace f-15 combat jets that date from the early 1970s .	the plane was originally intended to take the place of f-15 fighter jets , which were designed in the early 1970s .
permanent	long-term	JJ	permanent	long-term	15	4	many worry that as teenagers increasingly join the front lines , violence will become a permanent part of syrian society .	many worry about the long-term effects of having so many teenagers fighting .
worry	fear	VBP	worry	fear	1	1	many worry that as teenagers increasingly join the front lines , violence will become a permanent part of syrian society .	they fear that violence will become a permanent part of syrian society , even after the war ends .
part	place	NN	part	place	16	8	many worry that as teenagers increasingly join the front lines , violence will become a permanent part of syrian society .	they fear it will make syria a harsher place even after the war ends .
war	fighting	NN	war	fighting	18	9	with his skinny arms folded across his chest , he insisted he would finish his education when the war was over .	he insisted he would finish his education when the fighting was over .
news	report	NN	news	report	10	19	washington the united nations children 's fund announced some good news this week : more children around the world are living to age 5 .	washington more children around the world are living to their fifth birthday , the united nations said in a report this week .
infant	baby	NN	infant	baby	23	6	in nepal , for example , thousands of female health volunteers visit homes to give immunizations , family planning materials and information on infant care .	they provide vaccines and information on baby care .
congress	congressman	NN	congress	congressman	17	4	also last week , democratic representative hank johnson filed the stop militarizing law enforcement act , which congress will put to a vote .	also last week , congressman hank johnson filed the stop militarizing law enforcement act .
less	lower	JJR	less	lower	20	23	others , such as hawaii , maryland and massachusetts , often are at the opposite end , with poverty rates less than half those in more impoverished states .	other states , such as hawaii , maryland and massachusetts , often are at the opposite end of the scale , with much lower percentages of low-income residents .
high	expensive	JJ	high	expensive	9	5	advocates noted last week that the state 's extraordinarily high cost of living exacerbates the problem for many who live there .	food and housing are very expensive in hawaii , making the problem worse for many who live there .
survey	study	NN	survey	study	20	23	just 4 percent of deeply poor people older than 16 worked full time for a full year prior to the survey the urban institute analyzed .	just 4 percent of deeply poor people older than 16 worked full time for the full year period analyzed in the urban institute study .
infectious	contagious	JJ	infectious	contagious	18	18	but frieden said the patient had been in contact with only a handful of people after he became infectious .	frieden did say the patient had been in contact with only a handful of people after he became contagious .
pistol	gun	NN	pistol	gun	16	4	in the latest potential threat , officials said , a private security guard armed with a pistol rode in an elevator with the president during a sept .	a man with a gun rode in an elevator with obama .
room	house	NN	room	house	19	11	he allegedly knocked over an agent inside the door and wrestled with guards who chased him into the east room .	then he went through two doors and got into the white house .
agency	service	NN	agency	service	7	7	she also had trouble explaining why the agency did not admit for more than a week that gonzalez had forced his way deep inside before he was tackled .	she also had trouble explaining why secret service agents had not told the truth at first .
service	agency	NN	service	agency	1	4	secret service officials initially said gonzalez was unarmed .	at first , the agency also said gonzalez was unarmed .
vast	large	JJ	vast	large	20	14	wiessner originally made the recordings hoping to learn how this group of people established and maintained social networks across a vast area of 124 miles .	wiessner originally hoped to learn how they made and kept friends across such a large area .
like	love	VBP	like	love	1	1	we like candlelight dinners , fireplaces with a roaring fire , or making s ' mores during a family camping trip .	we love candlelit dinners , fireplaces with big fires , or making s ' mores during a family camping trip .
hunt	hunting	NN	hunt	hunting	12	10	after focusing on the latest artificial limb technology , he began to hunt for more basic options .	he looked into the latest prosthetic limb technology and began hunting for cheaper , less complicated options .
artificial	man-made	JJ	artificial	man-made	3	3	the need for artificial limbs has created a network of volunteer designers , medical workers , artists , engineers , parents and fans of 3-d printing .	the need for man-made hands has created a special network of people .
lighter	easier	JJR	lighter	easier	6	2	the 3-d versions also can be lighter and easier to wield and come in their favorite colors .	they are easier for kids to use .
hand	part	NN	hand	part	3	9	the traditional prosthetic hand was tight and covered his forearm .	his old one was tight and covered the lower part of his arm .
cover	pay	VB	cover	pay	10	10	she was so grateful to chi that she pledged to cover the cost of a 3-d printed hand for another child every time griffin got a new one .	griffin 's mother was so grateful that she promised to pay for a 3-d printed hand for another child every time griffin got a new one .
useful	usable	JJ	useful	usable	17	20	he could n't afford a prosthetic , so he jury-rigged something but needed help making it more useful .	he could n't afford artificial fingers , so he put together a replacement , but needed help making it more usable .
initiative	measure	NN	initiative	measure	3	13	south dakota 's initiative would raise the minimum wage based on changes to a national cpi metric starting in 2016 .	south dakota would raise the minimum wage based on changes to a national measure of the cost of living called the cpi .
raise	increase	VB	raise	increase	5	16	he said the proposal to raise south dakota 's minimum wage made for good midterm politics .	he works for the south dakota farm bureau , which opposes that state 's proposal to increase the minimum wage .
wage-increase	wage	NN	wage-increase	wage	7	7	it might be an uphill battle for wage-increase opponents before voters head to the polls .	it might be an uphill battle for wage increase opponents before people vote .
wage-increase	increase	NN	wage-increase	increase	7	8	it might be an uphill battle for wage-increase opponents before voters head to the polls .	it might be an uphill battle for wage increase opponents before people vote .
protection	safety	NN	protection	safety	14	12	still , saudi engineers and planners are being hailed for introducing new elements of protection and comfort .	still , saudi engineers and planners are being hailed for introducing new safety features .
make	allow	VB	make	allow	12	4	he said the supreme court should '' finish the job '' and make same-sex marriage legal in every state .	he said it should allow same-sex marriage in every state .
make	reach	VB	make	reach	15	12	however , a majority of at least five justices is needed for the court to make a ruling .	however , a majority of at least five justices must agree to reach a decision .
evidence	testing	NN	evidence	testing	9	6	it said there '' has been no documented scientific evidence '' that they harm marine mammals .	it said there is no evidence testing harms sea animals .
industry	area	NN	industry	area	7	9	a spill would ruin the local tourism industry , said paul manning , who owns the front porch cafe on the outer banks .	tourists rent homes for vacations and relax on the area 's beaches .
acoustic	sound	JJ	acoustic	sound	6	7	they will require onboard spotters and acoustic tests to detect marine mammals and shut down activities when they are too close .	they will also require onboard spotters and sound tests to detect marine mammals and shut down activities when they are too close .
caution	care	NN	caution	care	5	7	an '' extraordinary amount of caution '' is needed if there 's seismic exploration near spawning or feeding grounds of such whales , ioup said .	companies must take a huge amount of care near spawning or feeding grounds of such whales , ioup said .
homeland	country	NN	homeland	country	7	10	obama met with his senior health , homeland security and national security advisers .	obama met with his top advisers who focus on the country 's health and safety .
study	consider	VB	study	consider	9	2	he told reporters on monday that the officials would study whether they should increase the amount of screening passengers need before getting on a plane .	they will consider increasing the amount of checking passengers need before getting on a plane .
new	young	JJ	new	young	11	10	the irving arts center hopes to explain these artifacts to a new generation .	the irving arts center hopes to explain sican culture to young people .
drug	medicine	NN	drug	medicine	21	13	duncan , 42 , had been in critical condition on a respirator and was receiving kidney dialysis and an experimental antiviral drug , brincidofovir .	he was receiving kidney dialysis and a drug called brincidofovir , an experimental medicine that has not yet been proven effective .
grief	sadness	NN	grief	sadness	16	7	dallas judge clay jenkins , the top elected official in the county , also expressed his grief .	dallas county judge clay jenkins expressed his sadness .
bad	terrible	JJ	bad	terrible	5	3	typical symptoms include fever , bad headaches , muscle pain , diarrhea and vomiting .	they also experience terrible headaches , muscle pain , diarrhea and vomiting .
crystal	glass	NN	crystal	glass	18	18	inside semiconductors , electrons and '' holes , '' or spaces without electrons , can move around the crystal lattice to allow electrical current to flow .	semiconductors allow electricity to flow between a conductor , such as copper , and an insulator , like glass .
resume	continue	VB	resume	continue	17	17	if the cease-fire holds , the warfare that has devastated some areas in eastern ukraine will not resume .	if the cease-fire holds , the warfare that has devastated some areas in eastern ukraine will not continue .
concession	compromise	NN	concession	compromise	6	6	poroshenko has just made an important concession to the separatists with the passage of a law on autonomy for the separatist-inclined areas .	poroshenko has just made an important compromise , passing a law to give the separatists some autonomy , or independence , to rule the areas they control .
mean	say	VB	mean	say	17	5	it leaves unclear exactly which parts of eastern ukraine are involved , and just what autonomy will mean .	the new law does n't say exactly which parts of eastern ukraine are involved , and just how much freedom the people will have to govern themselves .
element	part	NN	element	part	2	2	one key element in the new autonomy law is an assurance that the russian language can be used in the public sphere in eastern ukraine .	one important part of the new law is that it allows the russian language to be used publicly in eastern ukraine .
kilometer	mile	NN	kilometer	mile	15	13	they returned in 2009 , and in 2011 , scientists estimated 30,000 walrus along 1 kilometer of beach near point lay .	in 2011 , there were about 30,000 walrus along more than a half mile of beach near point lay .
smallest	lowest	JJS	smallest	lowest	13	6	this summer , the sea ice 's annual low point was the sixth smallest since satellite monitoring began in 1979 .	scientists measure the sea ice 's lowest point every year .
daunting	difficult	JJ	daunting	difficult	22	16	in a world racked by war , atrocities and treason , the search for a worthy nobel peace prize laureate presents a daunting challenge this year .	in the midst of this year 's wars , horrors and treason , it will be difficult for the nobel peace prize committee to find a worthy laureate .
worthy	deserving	JJ	worthy	deserving	15	18	in a world racked by war , atrocities and treason , the search for a worthy nobel peace prize laureate presents a daunting challenge this year .	with all these problems , it will be difficult for the nobel peace prize committee to find a deserving winner , some say .
dearth	lack	NN	dearth	lack	2	2	despite the dearth of obvious deserving recipients , a record 278 nominations were made this year , up by 19 from last year 's previous record .	despite the lack of obvious deserving recipients , there were a record-breaking 278 nominations this year .
disclose	reveal	VBP	disclose	reveal	23	17	forty-seven organizations are among the nominees , which the nobel committee keeps secret for 50 years but which nominating individuals and agencies often disclose to the public .	the nobel committee keeps this list secret for 50 years , but nominating individuals and agencies often reveal their nominee to the public .
get	catch	VB	get	catch	19	9	dallas a nurse who took care of an ebola patient is the first person in the united states to get the deadly disease .	dallas a texas nurse is the first person to catch ebola in the united states .
slipup	slip-up	NN	slipup	slip-up	11	13	frieden said exposure to ebola can result from a single accidental slipup .	frieden said exposure to the ebola virus can come from a single accidental slip-up .
slip-up	slipup	NN	slip-up	slipup	13	12	frieden said exposure to the ebola virus can come from a single accidental slip-up .	frieden said a person can get ebola from even a single accidental slipup .
extensive	many	JJ	extensive	many	12	13	texas health commissioner david lakey said the health care worker had '' extensive contact '' with duncan .	texas health commissioner david lakey said the nurse came into contact with duncan many times .
hazardous-material	hazardous	JJ	hazardous-material	hazardous	18	7	the person 's car was decontaminated and the common area of an apartment complex was cleaned by a hazardous-material team sunday .	a team with experience in dealing with hazardous materials thoroughly cleaned the nurse 's car and the common area of an apartment complex sunday .
complex	building	NN	complex	building	13	16	the person 's car was decontaminated and the common area of an apartment complex was cleaned by a hazardous-material team sunday .	a team also thoroughly cleaned the nurse 's car and the common area of her apartment building on sunday .
representative	official	NN	representative	official	5	5	police officers and a cdc representative talked to residents sunday morning and distributed papers about ebola symptoms .	police officers and a cdc official talked to apartment residents on sunday morning and gave out information about ebola symptoms .
sufficiently	fairly	RB	sufficiently	fairly	9	9	researchers have therefore concluded that they would have needed sufficiently high-tech sailing canoes to navigate these unfavorable conditions .	researchers have therefore concluded that they must have had fairly high-tech sailing canoes .
closing	end	NN	closing	end	9	6	while these trends may have been helpful , the closing of such wind windows do n't appear to have stopped the polynesians , johns said .	however , she said , the end of such wind patterns does n't appear to have stopped the polynesians .
ending	end	NN	ending	end	14	6	while the patterns goodwin found may have been helpful , she said , the ending of such favorable wind patterns does n't appear to have stopped the polynesians .	however , she said , the end of such wind patterns does n't appear to have stopped the polynesians .
several	different	JJ	several	different	13	7	the current outbreak in west africa , however , is taking place where several countries ' borders meet .	the current outbreak in west africa is different .
ill	sick	JJ	ill	sick	3	12	right now every ill patient with ebola during this outbreak typically makes about two more people ill .	right now every ill patient with ebola makes about two more people sick .
lessen	reduce	VB	lessen	reduce	10	10	the massive scale-up in resources provided by international forces could lessen that disease burden .	the massive increase in aid provided by international forces could reduce that number .
greater	higher	JJR	greater	higher	8	8	yet the longer the response takes , the greater the possibility that areas that are now ebola-free or that become ebola-free could flare up again .	yet the longer the response takes , the higher the chance that areas that are now ebola-free could flare up again .
simplistic	simple	JJ	simplistic	simple	16	16	roebroeks said that the old '' europe , the birthplace of art '' story was too simplistic to be true .	roebroeks said that the old '' europe , the birthplace of art '' story was too simple to be true .
feasibility	possibility	NN	feasibility	possibility	9	9	recent experiments offer tentative support for time travel 's feasibility at least from a mathematical perspective .	recent experiments offer some support for time travel 's possibility at least in the world of math .
create	form	VB	create	form	2	11	this would create a '' closed timelike curve , '' or ctc , a loop that could be traversed to travel back in time .	if it curves back on itself , it could close and form a loop .
scenario	situation	NN	scenario	situation	3	3	in the hypothetical scenario someone uses a ctc to travel back through time to murder her own grandfather , thus preventing her own later birth .	in this imaginary situation someone uses a ctc to travel back through time to murder her own grandfather .
hypothetical	imaginary	JJ	hypothetical	imaginary	2	2	in the hypothetical scenario someone uses a ctc to travel back through time to murder her own grandfather , thus preventing her own later birth .	in this imaginary situation someone uses a ctc to travel back through time to murder her own grandfather .
distribution	range	NN	distribution	range	18	15	in this scenario there is no a priori deterministic certainty to the particle 's emission , only a distribution of probabilities .	in this scenario there is no certainty to the particle 's emission , only a range of probabilities .
insight	idea	NN	insight	idea	2	3	deutsch 's insight was to theorize that particles be consistent at the quantum level .	deutsch 's big idea was that particles are steady and constant at the quantum level .
consistent	steady	JJ	consistent	steady	9	8	deutsch 's insight was to theorize that particles be consistent at the quantum level .	deutsch 's big idea was that particles are steady and constant at the quantum level .
unlikely	likely	JJ	unlikely	likely	14	15	time-travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves their hoped-for future guests seem unlikely to arrive .	time-travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves no guests from the future seem likely to arrive .
cluster	group	NN	cluster	group	14	7	it took seven hours for the 15-person team to reach camp muir , a cluster of stone huts nearly two miles above sea level .	they finally reached camp muir , a group of stone huts part of the way up the mountain .
receive	greet	VB	receive	greet	14	16	27 , 1965 , about 1,500 people packed the dinkler 's chandeliered ballroom to receive king .	27 , 1965 , about 1,500 people black and white packed the dinkler 's ballroom to greet king .
whale	orca	NN	whale	orca	12	13	there , a bill was proposed this year that would ban killer whale shows and breeding .	in california , a new rule was introduced this year that would make orca shows against the law .
rule	law	NN	rule	law	5	8	in california , a new rule was introduced this year that would make orca shows against the law .	in california , an idea for a new law was introduced this year .
stringent	strict	JJ	stringent	strict	7	9	a number of southern states have adopted stringent rules to avoid heat-related illnesses and deaths .	also , a number of southern states have adopted strict rules to avoid heat-related illnesses and deaths .
height	time	NN	height	time	23	2	meanwhile , georgia schools kept changing their calendars to open schools ever earlier , which meant football practices began in mid-july , the height of summer .	at the time in georgia , schools were starting the year earlier and earlier , which meant football practices begin in mid-july , the hottest days of summer .
heat	temperature	NN	heat	temperature	14	5	certain surfaces , like concrete or a football field , retain and intensify the heat on the ground .	it ignored the '' radiant temperature , '' or the temperature on the ground .
temperature	heat	NN	temperature	heat	16	12	the new ghsa policy now requires all high schools to use a special calculator that measures temperature , humidity and radiant temperature .	the ghsa told schools to use a different way of measuring the heat .
journalist	reporter	NN	journalist	reporter	5	5	mark hyman is a sports journalist whose book , '' until it hurts , '' is about the rise in sports injuries to kids .	mark hyman is a sports reporter .
entirely	completely	RB	entirely	completely	13	6	but the community relations service a 50-person , $ 12 million-a-year unit is entirely different from those three larger operations .	the community relations service has a completely different job .
completely	entirely	RB	completely	entirely	6	5	the community relations service has a completely different job .	the community relations service is entirely different .
perception	idea	NN	perception	idea	6	10	they 'll have to overcome the perception , among some , that their work is n't impartial .	but lum and his team will have to overcome the idea , among some , that they take sides .
form	shape	NN	form	shape	12	2	a $ 50 million visitor center opened this month , its futuristic form resembling the sand dunes of the surrounding landscape .	its futuristic shape resembles the sand dunes of the surrounding landscape .
survey	examine	VB	survey	examine	5	5	the first step is to survey the caves , examine them carefully and understand the materials used to make the paintings .	the first step is to examine the caves closely .
carefully	closely	RB	carefully	closely	11	8	the first step is to survey the caves , examine them carefully and understand the materials used to make the paintings .	the first step is to examine the caves closely .
principal	top	JJ	principal	top	3	6	neville agnew , principal project specialist for the efforts , has made more than 50 trips to dunhuang since the late 1980s .	neville agnew , the getty 's top specialist on the caves , has been visiting dunhuang since the late 1980s more than 50 times overall .
high	huge	JJ	high	huge	22	10	the caves also contain many religious sculptures , including a 1,300-year-old buddha draped in orange robes that extends more than 100 feet high and nearly 40 feet wide .	the caves also contain many religious sculptures , including a huge carved buddha dressed in orange robes .
work	force	NN	work	force	12	14	carr made his fortune in the tech industry and turned to humanitarian work in 1998 .	carr , who made his fortune in the tech industry , is the driving force behind the gorongosa restoration project .
help	support	VB	help	support	12	12	carr has promised at least $ 40 million over 20 years to help restore gorongosa .	he has promised to spend $ 40 million over 20 years to support the project .
suspect	believe	VBP	suspect	believe	1	1	officials suspect that the craft entered swedish waters illegally .	officials believe that the craft entered swedish waters illegally .
photograph	photo	NN	photograph	photo	6	7	on sunday , they released a photograph taken at a distance of what they said could be the mystery vessel a dark speck surrounded by foaming water .	on sunday , swedish officials released a photo taken at a distance .
surveillance	monitoring	NN	surveillance	monitoring	3	5	estonia stepped up surveillance of its territorial waters , with the border guard looking out for '' potential anomalies , '' spokesman priit parkna said .	estonia has stepped up its monitoring of its territorial waters .
ploy	trick	NN	ploy	trick	13	13	the nezavisimaya gazeta newspaper even speculated that the submarine hunt could be a ploy staged by the swedish military to boost its defense budget .	the nezavisimaya gazeta newspaper even suggested that the submarine hunt could be a trick by the swedish military to boost its defense budget .
living	life	NN	living	life	11	6	these and other haunting images he has developed reflect his experience living as a black man in the south .	they are meant to reflect his life as a black man in the south .
recall	remember	VBP	recall	remember	11	11	it can become a crossing over , '' something that we recall , but also '' cross over '' and perhaps move past .	it can become a crossing over , '' something that we remember , but also '' cross over '' and perhaps get past .
railroad	railroad-crossing	NN	railroad	railroad-crossing	8	8	the rebel confederate flag morphs into a white railroad crossing sign , symbolizing the tracks that divide many rural southern towns , and many white and black neighborhoods .	the rebel confederate flag turns into a white railroad-crossing sign , symbolizing the tracks that divide many rural southern towns , and divide white and black neighborhoods .
unfortunately	sadly	RB	unfortunately	sadly	0	0	unfortunately , it has n't rained in months .	sadly , it has not rained in months .
rely	use	VBP	rely	use	2	2	most iranians rely on tap water for both drinking and washing .	most iranians use tap water for both drinking and washing .
rely	depend	VBP	rely	depend	2	3	most iranians rely on tap water for both drinking and washing .	most people here depend on tap water for both drinking and washing .
squander	waste	VB	squander	waste	22	24	experts cite a range of factors : a prolonged drought , climate change and outdated agricultural and household practices that tend to squander the precious liquid .	experts say a range of factors is responsible : a lengthy drought , climate change and outdated farming and household practices that tend to waste the precious liquid .
prolonged	lengthy	JJ	prolonged	lengthy	8	10	experts cite a range of factors : a prolonged drought , climate change and outdated agricultural and household practices that tend to squander the precious liquid .	experts say a range of factors is responsible : a lengthy drought , climate change and outdated farming and household practices that tend to waste the precious liquid .
wastewater	sewage	NN	wastewater	sewage	8	4	on the horizon are ambitious plans for recycling wastewater , reforming agricultural practices and changing what many regard as profligate personal use of water .	big plans for recycling sewage are on the horizon .
wastewater	waste	NN	wastewater	waste	8	9	on the horizon are ambitious plans for recycling wastewater , reforming agricultural practices and changing what many regard as profligate personal use of water .	there are big plans in the future for recycling waste water .
profligate	wasteful	JJ	profligate	wasteful	19	11	on the horizon are ambitious plans for recycling wastewater , reforming agricultural practices and changing what many regard as profligate personal use of water .	plans to improve farming methods and change what many regard as wasteful personal use of water are also being considered .
hesitant	reluctant	JJ	hesitant	reluctant	3	3	and people are hesitant to change customs of water usage acquired during decades and generations .	and people are reluctant to change their habits of water usage acquired over decades and generations .
consumption	usage	NN	consumption	usage	12	12	religious leaders were also asked to urge people to reduce their water consumption , said the letter , which was released in the local press .	religious leaders were also asked to urge people to reduce their water usage , said the letter , which was released in the local press .
urge	encourage	VB	urge	encourage	6	15	religious leaders were also asked to urge people to reduce their water consumption , said the letter , which was released in the local press .	the letter , which was provided to the local press , asked the leaders to encourage people to use less water .
urge	ask	VB	urge	ask	6	5	religious leaders were also asked to urge people to reduce their water consumption , said the letter , which was released in the local press .	the leaders were told to ask people to use less water .
commercial	business-related	JJ	commercial	business-related	17	18	the coming years likely will include the use of drones , or unmanned aerial vehicles , for commercial uses that few people expected .	in the coming years , drones will be used for purposes that few people expected many of them business-related .
integrate	include	VB	integrate	include	18	16	but in 2012 , congress gave the faa three years to come up with a plan to safely integrate commercial drones into the national airspace system .	in 2012 , congress gave the faa three years to come up with a plan to include commercial drones into the national airspace system .
carrier	company	NN	carrier	company	9	9	this is n't a new effort from the insurance carrier ; it 's been working on a testing proposal for the faa since 2010 .	this is n't a new effort from the insurance company .
easier	simpler	JJR	easier	simpler	17	20	the association for unmanned vehicle systems international is a lobbying group that is working to make it easier for companies to use drones .	the association for unmanned vehicle systems international is a lobbying group that is working to change laws to make it simpler for companies to use drones .
southern	south	JJ	southern	south	6	1	the average growth among the 16 southern states and the district of columbia was 63 percent .	the south includes 16 states from maryland and delaware to florida to texas and oklahoma .
district	region	NN	district	region	9	9	the average growth among the 16 states and the district of columbia -lrb- which the census identifies as the south -rrb- was 63 percent .	the average growth of the asian-american population in the region was 63 percent .
growth	increase	NN	growth	increase	14	7	the trend also extends to native hawaiian and pacific islanders , who saw population growth of 66 percent in the south .	however , they also saw a population increase of 66 percent in the south .
asian	asian-american	JJ	asian	asian-american	3	7	marita etcubanez of asian americans advancing justice says many of those moving to the south are chasing economic opportunity and a cheaper cost of living .	marita etcubanez , who works for an asian-american civil rights group , says many people move to the south in hopes of getting good jobs .
section	group	NN	section	group	3	3	baltimore a jeering section of media commentators , pundits and politicians have taken to the airwaves denouncing the national football league .	baltimore an angry group of media commentators and politicians have taken to the newspapers and tv airwaves attacking the national football league .
resign	quit	VB	resign	quit	9	9	they keep yelping for nfl commissioner roger goodell to resign .	newspeople keep calling for nfl commissioner roger goodell to quit his job .
story	article	NN	story	article	12	12	rarely a day goes by that the post fails to highlight a story promoting one or another aspect of their drive to change the '' offensive '' name .	rarely a day goes by that the post fails to run an article highlighting their campaign to change the '' offensive '' name .
give	make	VB	give	make	17	16	given the legislative branch 's job performance over the last decade , jenkins ' recommendation ought to give everyone particular pause .	given congress ' poor job performance over the last decade , jenkins ' recommendation ought to make everyone think twice .
broadcasting	television	NN	broadcasting	television	2	2	the canadian broadcasting corporation had video of the gunman going to his car alone with his weapon after the shooting at the memorial .	the canadian television station had video footage of the gunman going to his car after he shot the soldier at the memorial .
video	clip	NN	video	clip	5	7	the canadian broadcasting corporation had video of the gunman going to his car alone with his weapon after the shooting at the memorial .	the canadian tv station had a video clip of the gunman going to his car after he shot the soldier .
block	street	NN	block	street	15	7	the car was later spotted parked in front of parliament hill , just down the block .	the car was later found down the street .
cabinet	government	NN	cabinet	government	0	0	cabinet minister tony clement tweeted that at least 30 shots were heard inside parliament , where conservative and liberal mps were holding their weekly caucus meetings .	government official tony clement wrote on twitter that at least 30 shots were heard inside parliament .
mideast	east	JJ	mideast	east	12	13	as recently as tuesday , canada sent eight fighter jets to the mideast to join the battle against the islamic state group .	as recently as tuesday , canada sent eight fighter jets to the middle east to join the battle against isil fighters .
schooling	education	NN	schooling	education	14	17	she was shot in the head by a taliban gunman in 2012 for supporting schooling for girls in pakistan .	she had been shot in the head by a militant in 2012 in pakistan because she supported education for girls there .
inadequate	enough	JJ	inadequate	enough	18	13	in announcing the ambitious plan , garcetti said the city 's already significant reductions in water use were inadequate given the seriousness of the drought .	garcetti said the city 's already significant reductions in water use were n't enough given the seriousness of california 's drought .
reduction	drop	NN	reduction	drop	11	11	the ways in which garcetti hopes to achieve the 20 percent reduction are outlined in a new city plan .	the ways in which garcetti hopes to achieve the 20 percent drop are outlined in a new city plan .
impose	introduce	VB	impose	introduce	11	11	if the goals are n't met , garcetti said he would impose harsher rules for residents .	if the targets are n't met , garcetti said he would introduce tougher rules .
reliance	use	NN	reliance	use	12	13	among the goals in garcetti 's plan is a dramatic reduction in reliance on water imported from outside the region .	among the goals in garcetti 's plan is a dramatic drop in the use of water imported from outside the region .
grave	tomb	NN	grave	tomb	9	17	it may have been the result of an early grave robbery .	the doctors said it may have been broken by robbers stealing things from the mummy in its tomb .
shape	model	NN	shape	model	8	15	the scan will plot the exact size and shape of that object , and doctors will take it to be printed on washington university 's 3-d printer .	doctors will take its measurements to washington university 's 3-d printer and make a plastic model of it .
stupid	foolish	JJ	stupid	foolish	5	5	he called the meter programs stupid and said they are designed to help cities push out the homeless .	he thinks the program is foolish and says the meters will help cities push out the homeless .
swollen	puffy	JJ	swollen	puffy	17	10	she needs money for her own reasons underneath an eye patch , her eye is red and swollen from infection .	underneath an eye patch , her eye is red and puffy from infection .
stimulate	encourage	VB	stimulate	encourage	6	6	pasadena leaders argue the meters could stimulate giving by offering donors some assurance that their money wo n't be used for drugs or alcohol , he said .	pasadena leaders argue the meters could encourage giving by offering donors some assurance that their money will not be used for drugs or alcohol , he said .
district	neighborhood	NN	district	neighborhood	9	7	huang cited a recent survey by a business improvement district in san francisco .	huang cited a recent survey by a neighborhood in san francisco .
homelessness	homeless	NN	homelessness	homeless	20	15	the united way of los angeles and the flintridge center will collect the meter donations , and local nonprofits targeting homelessness can apply for funding .	two local organizations will collect the money from the meter , and groups helping the homeless can apply for the cash .
administer	run	VBP	administer	run	7	7	fourteen states and the district of columbia administer their own urm programs .	fourteen states and the district of columbia run their own urm programs .
investigate	study	VB	investigate	study	14	17	the way to determine refugee status , and eligibility for urm , is to investigate the circumstances of their lives back home .	the way to determine if someone is a refugee , and can use urm , is to study the situation of the children in their home countries .
battle	fight	NN	battle	fight	4	10	in oregon , the battle has become the costliest over a ballot measure in the state 's history .	in oregon , it has become the most expensive vote fight in the state 's history .
exhibit	show	VB	exhibit	show	14	7	earlier this year , with the battle 's anniversary approaching , george decided to exhibit some of adams ' artifacts .	earlier this year , george decided to show people some of adams ' objects at a museum .
reproduction	copy	NN	reproduction	copy	6	6	the monnett fund only owns a reproduction of such a shell .	the monnett fund only owns a copy of such a shell .
acreage	area	NN	acreage	area	14	17	but as the industrial park 's asphalt and concrete covered more of its old acreage , he found fewer .	he began finding less , however , once asphalt and concrete started covering up more of the area around the old battlefield .
collect	gather	VB	collect	gather	14	10	harper promised to speed up a plan to give the government greater power to collect information , hold suspects , and arrest people .	new laws would give canada 's government more power to gather information , hold suspects , and arrest people .
fire	shot	NN	fire	shot	9	8	inside the building , there was an exchange of fire involving the suspect , house of commons security and police .	inside the building , police and government security shot at the suspect , who shot back .
campaign	fight	NN	campaign	fight	1	1	the campaign to change maine 's hunting rules has shed light on its unique place in the wildlife world .	the fight has shed light on maine 's unique place in the wildlife world .
devastate	destroy	VB	devastate	destroy	12	12	eliminating the methods would send bear numbers soaring , and it would devastate the state 's bear-hunting industry , cody said .	eliminating the methods would send bear numbers soaring , and it would destroy the state 's bear-hunting industry , cody said .
notorious	well-known	JJ	notorious	well-known	2	2	the most notorious of these occurred last month in new jersey , where a 22-year-old hiker was attacked and killed by a black bear .	the most well-known of these happened last month in new jersey , where a 22-year-old hiker was attacked and killed by a black bear .
buddy	friend	NN	buddy	friend	5	6	so far , he and buddy ramy malka own two smart stop drive-thru convenience stores just outside columbus , home of hardline 's alma mater , ohio state .	so far , he and his friend ramy malka own two convenience stores just outside columbus , home of hartline 's college , ohio state .
friend	buddy	NN	friend	buddy	6	5	so far , he and his friend ramy malka own two convenience stores just outside columbus , home of hartline 's college , ohio state .	so far , he and buddy ramy malka own two convenience stores just outside columbus , home of hartline 's college , ohio state .
consistently	always	RB	consistently	always	20	17	in cooper city , florida , hartline is a hero and role model to aidan pratt , 14 , for consistently saving .	in florida , hartline is a hero and role model to aidan pratt , 14 , for always saving his money .
find	see	VB	find	see	6	7	still , unc must wait to find out whether the damaging new details will lead to more problems .	still , the school must wait to see whether the new details will lead to even more troubles .
external	outside	JJ	external	outside	4	10	the afam department escaped external reviews required every five years because it lacked a graduate program .	both the afam department and its chairman did n't face outside reviews .
rift	split	NN	rift	split	10	13	decades later , the navajo tongue has triggered a major rift in the upcoming presidential election of the country 's largest sovereign native american nation .	more than 60 years later , the navajo tongue has triggered a major split in the upcoming presidential election of the country 's largest sovereign native american nation .
tongue	language	NN	tongue	language	5	6	decades later , the navajo tongue has triggered a major rift in the upcoming presidential election of the country 's largest sovereign native american nation .	many years later , the navajo language has caused a major problem in the upcoming election for president of the navajo nation .
transmit	send	VB	transmit	send	14	13	during world war ii , they used their native language as a code to transmit secret messages .	during world war ii , the soldiers used navajo as a code to send secret messages .
protest	protester	NN	protest	protester	2	1	holding a protest sign , half-navajo mattie christensen said she feels 100 percent navajo , no matter her linguistic skills .	one protester , mattie christensen , said she feels 100 percent navajo , no matter what she speaks .
trouble	danger	NN	trouble	danger	11	3	many of these predatory fish species are known to be in trouble .	some are in danger of dying out altogether .
age	time	NN	age	time	1	2	by age 14 , he said , he had made $ 200,000 from drug sales , with the money stored in safety deposit boxes .	by the time he was 14 , briscoe said , he had made $ 200,000 selling drugs on the streets .
take	follow	VB	take	follow	4	4	his life began to take on a familiar rhythm arrests , criminal charges , group homes , jails and prisons from minnesota to tennessee to west virginia .	his life started to follow a pattern : arrests , criminal charges , group homes , jails and prisons from minnesota to tennessee to west virginia .
transformation	change	NN	transformation	change	1	2	that transformation had begun years earlier when briscoe overheard a cellmate '' stumbling through the pages of a children 's book '' while reading to his child .	briscoe 's change came after he saw another prisoner trying to read a children 's book to his son .
error	mistake	NN	error	mistake	17	8	once , while facing serious criminal charges , briscoe dug into a law book and discovered an error in the case against him .	he dug through law books and found a mistake in the case against him .
hospital	clinic	NN	hospital	clinic	4	1	doctors at children 's hospital of philadelphia sent the family to the clinic for special children in strasburg .	the clinic was called the clinic for special children in strasburg .
condition	disease	NN	condition	disease	7	9	they discovered that benjamin had a rare condition that made him allergic to milk-protein .	they soon discovered that benjamin had a rare genetic disease .
scene	site	NN	scene	site	17	5	one of the pilots had parachuted out of the aircraft , and another was located near the scene , the california highway patrol said .	another was found at the site , according to the california highway patrol .
nearly	fast	RB	nearly	fast	12	11	virgin has said that the rocket motor will power the spaceship to nearly 2,500 miles per hour -lrb- mph -rrb- .	virgin has said that the rocket will power the spaceship extremely fast .
curvature	curve	NN	curvature	curve	10	4	passengers would experience weightlessness at that altitude and see the curvature of the earth before the spaceship re-enters the atmosphere and glides back to a runway .	they would see the curve of the earth 's surface before the spaceship re-enters the atmosphere and glides back to a runway .
home	hometown	NN	home	hometown	15	19	the only thing missing , jones said , was the chance to do that at home .	the only thing missing for him , jones said , was the chance to win a championship in his hometown .
like	want	VB	like	want	8	4	a number of players in all sports would like to avoid playing in their hometown , but james is embracing it .	some players do n't want to play for their hometown team .
close	intimate	JJ	close	intimate	8	6	they have avoided girl-group drama and maintained incredibly close friendships all of these years .	their friendships have been drama-free and intimate all of these years .
motor	car	NN	motor	car	5	11	she 's endorsed everything from motor oil to diamond necklaces .	images of hello kitty 's cute little self sell everything from car products to diamond necklaces .
adorable	cute	JJ	adorable	cute	5	5	images of hello kitty 's adorable little cartoon self have helped sell everything from motor oil to diamond necklaces .	images of hello kitty 's cute little self sell everything from car products to diamond necklaces .
launch	open	VB	launch	open	5	5	sanrio recently said it will launch a new products next year called hello kitty men .	sanrio recently said it will open a hello kitty cafe in california .
notably	particularly	RB	notably	particularly	11	13	the results vividly demonstrated how constituents were frustrated with government , notably obama , and most saw the country heading in the wrong direction .	the results vividly demonstrated how frustrated voters are with the current government , particularly obama .
notably	especially	RB	notably	especially	11	13	the results vividly demonstrated how constituents were frustrated with government , notably obama , and most saw the country heading in the wrong direction .	the results showed just how frustrated voters were with the current government , especially president obama .
defeat	win	VB	defeat	win	16	4	the democrats had hopes for a republican seat in georgia , but michelle nunn failed to defeat republican businessman david perdue .	the democrats wanted a win in georgia , but michelle nunn lost to republican businessman david perdue .
something	anything	NN	something	anything	22	18	and vice president joe biden argued , perhaps hopefully , that congressional republicans will need to compromise with obama if they want something to tout in 2016 .	vice president joe biden argued that republicans will need to work with obama if they want to get anything done .
fatal	deadly	JJ	fatal	deadly	2	2	the often fatal condition occurs when a player suffers a second concussion before the first has healed .	the often deadly condition occurs when a player suffers a second concussion before the first has healed .
point	question	NN	point	question	18	15	as a result , mahaffey suggests to some patients they quit football , though determining that proper stopping point is often guesswork .	as a result , mahaffey suggests to some patients they quit football , but the question is when .
baseline	base	NN	baseline	base	16	13	the players take the computerized assessment before the season when they 're concussion-free to establish a baseline score .	players take a computerized test before the season , which gives them a base score .
credentials	qualifications	NNS	credentials	qualification	10	7	the appointment of a political fix-it man with flimsy medical credentials as ebola czar confirmed the white house response is more political than responsible .	the appointment of someone with flimsy medical qualifications as ebola czar confirmed that the white house response is more political than responsible .
highly	much	RB	highly	much	19	19	then there 's the who , whose director ignored a plea for more support in west africa from the highly effective doctors without borders in july .	in july , its director ignored a plea for more support from doctors without borders , the group doing much of the work fighting ebola in west africa .
law	rule	NN	law	rule	14	10	other groups , however , said the cal state system would be following the law as long as it applied standards evenly and to everyone equally .	other experts , however , say the cal state all-comer rule is legal as long as it applied to everyone .
tribunal	court	NN	tribunal	court	6	2	sometime early in 2015 , the tribunal , known formally as the international center for settlement of investment disputes , will issue its ruling .	the little-known court is formally called the international center for settlement of investment disputes .
case	business	NN	case	business	2	12	the unusual case is a sign of how international business laws are allowing corporations to act against foreign governments that limit their future profits .	they will be considering laws that cover the rights of companies doing business in other countries .
digging	dig	NN	digging	dig	7	1	the el dorado mine , where the digging for gold would take place , is located near the lempa river .	the dig for gold would take place at a mine known as el dorado .
aggressively	strongly	RB	aggressively	strongly	9	7	tech companies have championed gay rights more openly and aggressively than most other kinds of companies .	tech companies have supported gay rights more strongly than most other kinds of companies .
say	read	VBP	say	read	13	6	organizations for the visually impaired welcome an affordable braille printer , which they say could give blind people better access to literature and news .	it could help more blind people read books and news .
get	buy	VB	get	buy	10	11	possibly the biggest challenge facing braigo is whether it can get enough customers .	the biggest challenge facing braigo may be whether enough people will buy the printers .
clock	time	NN	clock	time	5	6	baseball could have a pitch clock , a pitching-change clock , and an inning-break clock .	it could soon add clocks to time pitches , substitutions , and breaks between innings .
eastern	east	JJ	eastern	east	6	6	employees at a shopping mall in eastern berlin make $ 1,400 less each year than workers at a mall across the street in western berlin .	employees at one shopping mall in east berlin make $ 1,400 less each year than workers at a mall across the street in west berlin .
patch	plot	NN	patch	plot	11	4	in 1969 , warnick got such a lease on a garden patch .	warnick received a garden plot in 1969 .
previous	former	JJ	previous	former	14	8	warnick won the right to stay , after paying about $ 180,000 to the previous owner and lawyers .	he had to pay $ 180,000 to the former owner and to lawyers .
branch	department	NN	branch	department	7	4	it took the army past conflict repatriations branch weeks to track down cushing 's family , following obama 's announcement of the honor in late august .	it took an army department weeks to track down members of cushing 's family .
trucking	truck	NN	trucking	truck	11	15	some parched communities are living on the verge of waterlessness , trucking in water and praying for rain .	some parched communities are living on the verge of drought and have been forced to truck in water .
potable	drinkable	JJ	potable	drinkable	8	8	the lake association refills it with fresh , potable water , making it one of the district 's largest water users .	the lake association refills it with fresh , drinkable water , making it one of the district 's largest water users .
rate	level	NN	rate	level	3	2	the federal poverty rate is based solely on income for 2013 , it was $ 23,624 for a family of four .	the poverty level was $ 23,624 a year for an american family of four in 2013 .
individual	different	JJ	individual	different	9	8	the census bureau analysis illuminates the extent to which individual programs cut the poverty rate , by calculating what the poverty rate would have been without the benefit .	the census bureau numbers show how far the different programs help reduce the poverty rate .
rate	percentage	NN	rate	percentage	5	8	without social security , the rate of poverty among all americans would have been nine percentage points higher .	for example , without social security , the percentage of all americans living below the poverty rate would have been nine percentage points higher .
lowest	least	JJS	lowest	least	4	5	vermont recipients had the lowest average payment , at just under $ 1,900 .	people in vermont got the least , just under $ 1,900 .
people	residents	NNS	people	resident	0	0	people in vermont got the least , just under $ 1,900 .	residents of vermont got the least , just under $ 1,900 each .
overall	total	JJ	overall	total	10	8	the impact that a benefit has on a state 's overall poverty rate largely depends on the number of state residents who receive it .	the effect of benefits on a state 's total poverty rate largely depends on the number of residents of the state who receive it .
consent	agreement	NN	consent	agreement	12	12	kansas said biometric data can not be collected without student or parental consent .	in kansas now , biometric information can not be collected without the agreement of students or their parents .
require	force	VB	require	force	9	9	new hampshire and missouri lawmakers said schools ca n't require students to use id cards equipped with radio frequency identification -lrb- rfid -rrb- technology that can track them .	new hampshire and missouri lawmakers said schools can not force students to use id cards with radio frequency identification -lrb- rfid -rrb- technology .
index-fingerprint	fingerprint	NN	index-fingerprint	fingerprint	24	22	in cafeterias , for example , schools can replace traditional student id cards with machines that can read small , identifiable portions of an index-fingerprint .	in cafeterias , for example , schools can replace traditional student id cards with machines that can read small portions of a fingerprint .
follow	keep	VB	follow	keep	13	9	but some lawmakers question whether schools really need these kinds of tools to follow kids around .	but some lawmakers question whether schools really need to keep such close track of students .
secure	safe	JJ	secure	safe	24	18	state legislators have continued to propose restrictions on the technology , despite repeated assurances from the companies that supply it that student information is secure .	state legislators have continued to restrict the technology , despite assurances from tech companies that student information is safe .
social-media	social	JJ	social-media	social	23	26	swift 's upbeat attitude is surely rooted in her own exceptionalism , not to mention her laser-like focus on achieving sales goals through social-media bonding .	her upbeat attitude surely comes from her own unique position , not to mention her laser-like focus on achieving sales goals through bonding with fans on social media .
journal	newspaper	NN	journal	newspaper	5	7	but in the wall street journal piece , swift had salient points to make about the devaluation of music .	in the article she wrote for the newspaper , swift had important points to make about the business of music .
known	unknown	JJ	known	unknown	2	0	these less known bands need to get their music out any way they can .	unknown bands need to get people to hear their songs any way they can .
stream	streaming	NN	stream	streaming	1	5	to stream or not to stream is a thorny dilemma for fans , too .	fans have a problem with streaming , too .
make	perform	VB	make	perform	4	10	yes , bands can make money -lrb- sometimes -rrb- , but it also gives fans a chance to make a human connection with the artists they love .	bands can make money from fans paying to see them perform .
spacecraft	space	NN	spacecraft	space	12	4	for the first time in history , humans have successfully landed a spacecraft on a comet .	scientists from the european space agency -lrb- esa -rrb- successfully landed philae , a mobile laboratory , on a comet named 67p on wednesday .
low	weak	JJ	low	weak	5	5	because the comet has such low gravity , it is possible the lander could recoil when the harpoons are fired .	because the comet has such weak gravity , firing the harpoons could shoot the lander back into space .
information	message	NN	information	message	5	3	from there rosetta relayed the information to earth , taking 28 minutes to arrive , crossing 300 million miles of space .	rosetta sent the message on to earth .
function	work	VB	function	work	1	7	to function properly , the lander needs to land upright .	the lander needed to be upright to work properly .
fret	worry	VB	fret	worry	11	14	it also has 42 '' beautiful '' white fringe trees to fret over .	the botanic garden has 42 '' beautiful '' fringe trees of its own to worry about .
call	appeal	NN	call	appeal	7	6	but the attorneys said the governor 's call should have been aimed at police as well .	the attorneys said the governor 's appeal should have been aimed at police as well .
come	happen	VB	come	happen	13	13	on tuesday , nixon talked about how police are preparing for what might come with the grand jury 's announcement .	on tuesday , nixon talked about how police are preparing for what might happen after the grand jury makes its announcement .
canine	dog	NN	canine	dog	22	21	seattle when daniel promislow jogs with his weimaraner , silver , it pains him to see age creeping up on the 11-year-old canine .	seattle when daniel promislow jogs with his 11-year-old weimaraner , named silver , it is hard for him to see the dog get old .
pup	puppy	NN	pup	puppy	10	11	his other dog , frisbee , still frolics like a pup but at 10 , she also qualifies as elderly .	his other dog , frisbee , is still playful like a puppy .
pup	dog	NN	pup	dog	10	14	his other dog , frisbee , still frolics like a pup but at 10 , she also qualifies as elderly .	at 10 , though , she also is considered to be elderly for a dog .
promising	hopeful	JJ	promising	hopeful	8	5	the drug has also emerged as the most promising candidate among dozens of substances studied for anti-aging effects .	right now , the most hopeful medicine is called rapamycin .
onset	start	NN	onset	start	12	11	nearly 50 laboratory studies have shown that the drug can delay the onset of some diseases and restore vigor to elderly animals .	nearly 50 laboratory studies have shown that it can delay the start of some diseases .
function	work	NN	function	work	11	5	and in elderly mice , it caused marked improvement in heart function .	it also makes the heart work better in old mice .
rover	robot	NN	rover	robot	5	6	now scientists have built a rover to explore another challenging target : colonies of adorable penguins .	now , scientists have built a robot to explore a new and challenging frontier : colonies of adorable penguins .
robot	rover	NN	robot	rover	15	15	a team led by scientists from the university of strasbourg in france have built a robot that resembles a fluffy penguin chick .	a team led by scientists from the university of strasbourg in france have designed a rover that looks like a fluffy penguin chick .
object	thing	NN	object	thing	15	13	when a king penguin feels threatened , it will usually shuffle away from the scary object while holding onto its egg or baby chick .	when a king penguin feels threatened , it will move away from the thing that scares it .
scary	scared	JJ	scary	scared	14	5	when a king penguin feels threatened , it will usually shuffle away from the scary object while holding onto its egg or baby chick .	when a king penguin feels scared , it tries to run away .
migrate	move	VBP	migrate	move	7	7	when the penguins shuffle away , they migrate into the spaces of other nearby penguins .	when the penguins shuffle away , they move into the spaces of other nearby penguins .
enter	come	VB	enter	come	12	6	the number of families who were stopped at the border trying to enter the country fell about 10 percent , from 2,414 to 2,163 , the agency said .	the number of families trying to come to the united states illegally also decreased .
kind	class	NN	kind	class	17	9	the idea is popular with parents and politicians alike at least 40 states have carried out some kind of class-size reduction in the past 15 years .	in fact , at least 40 states have cut class sizes in the past 15 years .
generally	mostly	RB	generally	mostly	1	1	researchers generally agree that smaller classes , at least in the earliest grades , are linked to educational benefits .	experts mostly agree that smaller classes are good , at least in the earliest grades .
mostly	generally	RB	mostly	generally	1	1	experts mostly agree that smaller classes are good , at least in the earliest grades .	experts generally agree that smaller classes are good , at least in early grades .
individualized	one-on-one	JJ	individualized	one-on-one	7	7	the idea that teachers give students more individualized instruction in smaller classrooms did not pan out when researchers observed what actually happened in smaller classes .	people thought that teachers gave students more one-on-one instruction in smaller classrooms .
veteran	experienced	JJ	veteran	experienced	8	8	for example , sometimes schools would put two veteran teachers in the same room , which lowered the class size on paper .	for example , sometimes schools would put two experienced teachers in the same room , which lowered the class size on paper .
authorization	permission	NN	authorization	permission	15	14	commercial operators and government officials from police to research scientists must obtain faa certificates of authorization to fly drones .	commercial operators and government officials from police to research scientists must obtain special faa permission to fly drones .
warm-water	warm	JJ	warm-water	warm	9	9	but el nio is n't driving this year 's warm-water spike , which began in mid-july , experts say .	but el nio is n't driving this year 's warm water , experts say .
greatly	much	RB	greatly	much	20	15	it is an unusual warming of the ocean water at the equator near south america , and affects the weather greatly .	in an el nio , ocean water at the equator near south america warms up much more than usual .
catch	fishing	NN	catch	fishing	9	7	in many parts of california , the commercial salmon catch was down , and squid were caught as far north as eureka , which is unusual .	in many parts of california , salmon fishing was down .
fishing	fisherman	NN	fishing	fisherman	7	6	in many parts of california , salmon fishing was down .	in many parts of california , fisherman caught fewer salmon .
influx	flow	NN	influx	flow	11	12	but even she 's starting to wonder how much longer this influx of cash from across the pacific will last .	however , even she is starting to wonder how much longer the flow of cash from across the pacific will last .
band	lap-band	NN	band	lap-band	6	13	the procedure involves placing a silicone band with a balloon inside around the upper portion of the stomach to severely limit what a person can eat .	then , 21 months ago , the governor had an operation known as lap-band surgery .
jurisdiction	authority	NN	jurisdiction	authority	20	20	peta originally filed its complaint with the state fish and game commission , but that agency said it had no jurisdiction regarding zoo animals .	peta originally filed its complaint with the state fish and game commission , but that agency said it had no authority regarding zoo animals .
sufficient	enough	JJ	sufficient	enough	9	10	the usda ruled that the exhibit did not have sufficient distance and barriers between the animals and the general public .	the agency also ruled that the exhibit did not have enough distance and barriers between the animals and visitors .
old-school	old-fashioned	JJ	old-school	old-fashioned	9	8	peet said the zoo is clinging to an '' old-school '' approach when other methods are safer and work better .	peet felt the zoo was sticking to an old-fashioned approach .
anti-terrorism	anti-terror	JJ	anti-terrorism	anti-terror	2	2	defense and anti-terrorism officials did not appear to ask for the disney protections .	defense and anti-terror officials did not ask for the disney no-fly zones .
major	important	JJ	major	important	7	7	on wednesday , mexican scientists announced a major discovery .	on wednesday , mexican scientists announced an important discovery .
peak	height	NN	peak	height	2	2	at its peak it was probably the most powerful city in all of north america , dominating even the classic maya , who existed at the same time .	at its height , it was probably the most powerful city in all of north america .
omnipotent	all-powerful	JJ	omnipotent	all-powerful	14	7	for instance , archaeologists debate their political structure : one side envisions a single omnipotent ruler whereas the other sees a joint rule shared by four competing factions .	one side believes there was a single all-powerful ruler .
all-powerful	powerful	JJ	all-powerful	powerful	7	6	one side believes there was a single all-powerful ruler .	some believe there was just one powerful ruler .
tomb	grave	NN	tomb	grave	7	7	he said it is possible that a tomb is hidden under the rubble or even below the chamber floors .	he said it is possible that a grave is hidden under the rubble .
manner	way	NN	manner	way	22	16	parkor as faircloth notes , parkor is about moving more efficiently from point a to point b in a safe and speedy manner .	parkor it is about moving from point a to point b in a safe and speedy way .
backbone	spine	NN	backbone	spine	26	25	they reported that the disease is a type of densovirus , similar to viruses that affect insects , sea urchins and other invertebrates animals without a backbone .	it 's a type of densovirus , similar to viruses that affect insects , sea urchins , and other invertebrates , or animals without a spine .
dance	ballroom	NN	dance	ballroom	2	9	at the dance , the 13 fathers in suits and ties and tuxedos spent two hours with their girls .	in a prison meeting room transformed into a fairy-tale ballroom , the 13 fathers spent two hours with their girls .
panel	jury	NN	panel	jury	1	2	the panel met for 70 hours and heard from 60 witnesses .	the grand jury is a group of people who listen to a case .
indict	charge	VB	indict	charge	9	8	at least nine votes would have been required to indict wilson , who is white .	the protesters wanted the jury to vote to charge wilson with a crime .
probe	investigation	NN	probe	investigation	7	6	the department also has launched a broad probe into the ferguson police department , looking for patterns of discrimination .	federal investigators also launched a broad investigation into the ferguson police department .
gesture	signal	NN	gesture	signal	17	6	life is imitating art in thailand , where students protesting against the military have adopted a hand gesture from the '' hunger games '' movies .	students there are using a hand signal from the '' hunger games '' movies to protest against the military .
welfare	well-being	NN	welfare	well-being	17	17	their approach relies on imitating nature to create agriculture that looks out for the environment , animal welfare and public health .	that means they are trying to create a farm that looks out for the environment , animal well-being and people 's health .
purchase	buy	VB	purchase	buy	6	6	the days of being able to purchase some cheap land in the country are gone .	the days of being able to buy some cheap land in the country are gone .
farmland	land	NN	farmland	land	12	10	young farmers often find themselves competing with rich land developers for scarce farmland .	young farmers often find themselves trying to buy the same land as rich land developers .
heavy	big	JJ	heavy	big	14	13	getting a loan is n't easy , particularly for young college grads saddled with heavy student loans .	getting a loan is not easy , particularly for young college graduates with big student loans to pay off .
significance	importance	NN	significance	importance	7	7	the future of young farmers has great significance for states , according to holly rippon-butler , of the national young farmers ' coalition -lrb- nyfc -rrb- .	the future of young farmers has great importance for states , says holly rippon-butler .
great	important	JJ	great	important	6	6	the future of young farmers has great significance for states , according to holly rippon-butler , of the national young farmers ' coalition -lrb- nyfc -rrb- .	the future of young farmers is important for states .
second-fastest	fastest	JJS	second-fastest	fastest	2	1	but the second-fastest growing group is young farmers and ranchers who are under 35 .	the fastest growing group of farmers and ranchers is 65 and older .
average-sized	average-size	JJ	average-sized	average-size	11	3	between 2000 and 2010 , national land prices doubled ; an average-sized farm can cost upward of $ 1 million .	now , an average-size farm can cost more than $ 1 million .
testing	test	NN	testing	test	10	1	the results led some parents to slam the idea of testing preschoolers to determine what kind of classes they will take later on .	the test decides what classes they will take later on .
chef	cook	NN	chef	cook	11	9	a great-grandmother , daniels has been a matriarch , therapist , chef and friend to demonstrators who traveled to ferguson from around the country .	a great-grandmother , daniels has been a mother , cook and friend to the protesters .
valuable	useful	JJ	valuable	useful	10	7	but , they say , virtual labs can be a valuable tool to teach basic science , while allowing campuses to reduce staff and equipment costs .	they say virtual labs can be a useful tool .
money	funding	NN	money	funding	13	9	governor jerry brown has called on educators to make up for the lost money in part through greater use of new technologies .	california public colleges lost billions of dollars in state funding during the tough economy a few years ago .
make	give	VB	make	give	11	9	governor jerry brown and state lawmakers have called on educators to make up for those losses in part through greater use of new technologies .	jobs were lost and california had less money to give to its universities .
outdated	old	JJ	outdated	old	8	8	christensen and others see muir 's beliefs as outdated in the face of 21st-century environmental challenges .	christensen and others say muir 's thoughts are old .
abundant	rich	JJ	abundant	rich	15	12	critics also say muir 's vision of wilderness is rooted in economic privilege and the abundant leisure time of the upper class .	some environmentalists also say muir 's vision of wilderness assumes everyone is rich .
skiing	ski	NN	skiing	ski	8	7	critics argue against his idea of backpacking , skiing or rock climbing through the sierra mountains .	muir thought that californians should backpack , ski or rock climb through the sierra mountains .
place	part	NN	place	part	23	1	one blemish on muir 's past is indisputable : his disdain for california 's native americans , a group he claimed had no place in the sierra landscape .	one part of muir 's past is hard to take .
boutique	store	NN	boutique	store	6	5	kids can shop at the nonprofit boutique without worrying about how much money is in their wallet .	kids can shop at this store for free .
stenographer	reporter	NN	stenographer	reporter	13	15	before she moved to florida in 2000 , she was as a court stenographer in chicago , where she worked in the juvenile court system .	before she moved to florida in 2000 , she worked in chicago as a court reporter in the juvenile court system .
driver	trucker	NN	driver	trucker	5	3	when it arrived , truck driver bill gore made a signal to pile the dirt high .	once there , trucker bill gore made a signal to pile the dirt up high .
excavator	digger	NN	excavator	digger	19	11	a trucker from a clear lake , minnesota , company was caught driving 76,100 pounds overweight while carrying an excavator .	another trucker was caught driving 76,100 pounds overweight while carrying a digger .
road	route	NN	road	route	10	6	fisher , the truck driver , turned onto an unpaved road and bounced over ruts and potholes on the way to the dirt pit .	sunday morning , fisher chugged down route 200 .
road	highway	NN	road	highway	10	9	fisher , the truck driver , turned onto an unpaved road and bounced over ruts and potholes on the way to the dirt pit .	on a sunday morning , fisher chugged down a highway .
route	highway	NN	route	highway	6	9	sunday morning , fisher chugged down route 200 .	on a sunday morning , fisher chugged down a highway .
view	idea	NN	view	idea	10	7	a : she shifted , very dramatically , anthropologists ' view of where we obtained our human features .	she changed , very dramatically , the idea of where we became human .
band	group	NN	band	group	23	16	this allowed early humans to carry food back to a home base and share it with members of one 's own tribe or band .	they could carry food back to a home base and share it with members of the group .
look	examine	VB	look	examine	14	3	we can also use computerized tomography scans , a type of x-ray , to look at teeth and what they can tell us about life histories .	we can also examine their teeth with a special kind of x-ray .
principally	mainly	RB	principally	mainly	12	12	the challenge of keeping ebola from becoming a global problem is not principally a security problem .	the challenge of keeping ebola from becoming a global problem is not mainly a security problem .
assistance	aid	NN	assistance	aid	13	6	america 's humanitarian response to the 2004 tsunami in the asia-pacific dwarfed the assistance provided by most countries .	america sent large amounts of humanitarian aid to help after the 2004 tsunami in asia .
feasible	possible	JJ	feasible	possible	14	14	the right measure of these missions is whether or not they are suitable , feasible and acceptable .	the right measure of these missions is whether or not they are suitable , possible and acceptable .
risk-mitigation	risk	NN	risk-mitigation	risk	13	18	but , our troops are disciplined , and they should know the right risk-mitigation measures to take .	but , our troops are disciplined , and they should know the measures to take to lower their risk .
form	type	NN	form	type	11	9	passengers of the future may well view vehicles as just another form of public transportation , to be purchased by the trip or in a subscription .	in the future , cars may become just another type of public transportation , like a bus or a train .
application	use	NN	application	use	2	2	the rapid application of computing power to transportation will open the industry to new entrants .	the increased use of computing power in transportation will open the industry to new entrants .
shift	move	VB	shift	move	4	3	automakers that survive will shift most of their business to create transit companies , or to selling their vehicles to those who do .	and automakers will move to create transportation companies , or sell their vehicles to them .
borscht	soup	NN	borscht	soup	8	6	an improvised version of soul food sometimes replaced borscht .	soul food sometimes replaced russian beet soup .
fat	big	JJ	fat	big	9	2	the soviets gave the african-americans red-carpet treatment , including fat paychecks , subsidized housing and free vacations .	they received big paychecks , low-cost housing and free vacations .
low-cost	cheap	JJ	low-cost	cheap	12	5	the soviets gave the african-americans red-carpet treatment , including fat paychecks , low-cost housing and free vacations .	they received big paychecks , cheap homes and free vacations .
become	come	VBN	become	come	15	13	in recent decades , it has been almost all girls and young women who have become targets .	in recent decades it has been mostly girls and young women who have come under fire .
public	open	JJ	public	open	10	4	patti davis , a former first daughter , wrote a public letter to malia and sasha on sunday .	patti davis wrote an open letter to malia and sasha on sunday .
number	count	NN	number	count	16	9	vending machine operators will face similar fda calorie labeling rules and will have to post the number of calories for each item they sell .	vending machine owners will have to post the calorie count of each candy bar or bag of chips .
provide	contain	VBP	provide	contain	16	11	however , many consumers simply do not know or underestimate the amount of calories these foods provide .	many people simply do not know how many calories these foods contain .
president	head	NN	president	head	7	4	in a statement , national restaurant association president and ceo dawn sweeney said the new rules will make nutritional information available in 200,000 restaurants nationwide .	dawn sweeney is the head of the national restaurant association .
concern	problem	NN	concern	problem	4	2	the second major environmental concern is discharge water .	the second problem with desalination is discharge water .
disperse	spread	VB	disperse	spread	4	8	another approach is to disperse the discharge water under the ocean surface using spray nozzles .	another approach is to use spray nozzles to spread the discharge water under the ocean surface .
forward	front	JJ	forward	front	23	4	donald stratton , 92 , of colorado springs , colorado , was one of the few survivors of a gun director in the forward part of the ship .	he was in the front part of the ship when the arizona was hit .
fleet	navy	NN	fleet	navy	21	10	the men arrived at the pearl harbor visitor center on tuesday to military salutes , music from the navy 's pacific fleet band and photos from tourists .	they were met with military salutes and music from a navy band .
normal	ordinary	JJ	normal	ordinary	11	11	bruner spoke of his decision not to be buried in a normal military cemetery , where , he says , the dead are often forgotten .	bruner spoke of his decision not to be buried in an ordinary military graveyard .
shot	chance	NN	shot	chance	4	5	if she has a shot at her dream , it 's because of the baghdad school of music and ballet .	if her dream has a chance , it 's because of the baghdad school of music and ballet .
era	period	NN	era	period	5	5	in class photos from the era , the schoolgirls and female teachers wear miniskirts .	in class photos from the period , the schoolgirls and female teachers wear miniskirts .
era	time	NN	era	time	5	5	in class photos from the era , the schoolgirls and female teachers wear miniskirts .	in class photos from the time , the schoolgirls and female teachers wear miniskirts .
ruthless	unforgiving	JJ	ruthless	unforgiving	7	7	bedford , mild-mannered and even-tempered , is ruthless in his quest to produce the next great apple .	bedford is mild-mannered and even-tempered , but unforgiving in his quest to produce the next great apple .
apple-breeding	apple	NN	apple-breeding	apple	7	1	as research scientist for the u 's apple-breeding program , bedford tastes a lot of apples .	during apple season , he will take a bite out of as many as 600 apples a day .
police	nypd	NN	police	nypd	3	1	the new york police department said thursday it was moving forward with an internal review of officer pantaleo 's actions on the day garner died .	the nypd is investigating panaleo 's actions on the day garner died .
nypd	police	NN	nypd	police	10	11	pantaleo could face punishments , including being fired from the nypd , said lieutenant colonel john grimpel , a department spokesman .	lieutenant colonel john grimpel is a spokesman for the new york police department .
slump	downturn	NN	slump	downturn	13	14	after work was completed in 1869 , the nation fell into an economic slump .	after work was completed in 1869 , the nation 's economy fell into a downturn .
law	act	NN	law	act	23	2	after it was renewed and then made permanent in 1902 , only one senator george frisbie hoar was willing to vote against the law .	the exclusion act was renewed and made permanent in 1902 .
residence	house	NN	residence	house	20	20	in camarillo , gushing mud and water prompted a mandatory evacuation of 75 homes where a slide had buried a residence on halloween .	in camarillo , gushing mud and water prompted a forced evacuation of 75 homes where a slide had buried a house on halloween .
terrain	land	NN	terrain	land	24	14	rock slides hit the road in malibu canyon , and in silverado canyon residents moved horses and other large livestock to lower , flatter terrain .	in silverado canyon people moved horses and other farm animals to lower , flatter land .
mud	mudslide	NN	mud	mudslide	4	4	glendora suffered a massive mud flow in 1969 that destroyed 30 homes .	glendora had a huge mudslide in 1969 .
still-classified	classified	JJ	still-classified	classified	14	9	five hundred pages were released , representing the executive summary and conclusions of a still-classified 6,700-page full investigation .	about 6,700 pages of the full investigation still remain classified .
justification	reason	NN	justification	reason	13	17	it cites cia cables , emails and interview transcripts to rebut the central justification for torture that it thwarted terror plots and saved american lives .	it says that the cia cables , emails and interview transcripts seem to say that the big reason the cia used the torture techniques was false .
contention	claim	NN	contention	claim	12	5	some republican leaders objected to the report 's release and challenged its contention that tough tactics did n't work .	they challenged the report 's claim that the tough tactics did n't work .
detainee	prisoner	NN	detainee	prisoner	13	15	at that time bush expressed discomfort with one of the images of a detainee who was being tortured .	at that time bush said he was uncomfortable with one of the images of a prisoner who was being tortured .
unauthorized	illegal	JJ	unauthorized	illegal	3	7	agency officials added unauthorized methods into the mix , the report says .	the report says agency officials added other illegal techniques into the mix .
joyful	happy	JJ	joyful	happy	12	12	at the condor 's nest , the view has not always been joyful , either .	at the condors ' nest , the view has not always been happy either .
fledgling	chick	NN	fledgling	chick	20	16	the mother took over his responsibility of flying up to 150 miles a day in search of food for their fledgling baby bird .	the mother began flying up to 150 miles a day in search of food for her chick .
jeopardy	danger	NN	jeopardy	danger	4	4	condors have been in jeopardy since the 1950s .	condors have been in danger since the 1950s .
brilliant	bright	JJ	brilliant	bright	12	11	then , with black-and-white wings flapping hard , they rose into the brilliant blue sky .	their black-and-white wings flapped hard , and they flew into the bright blue sky .
home-packed	packed	JJ	home-packed	packed	5	0	they found that the typical home-packed lunch contained far fewer vegetables , fruit , meat -lrb- or meat alternatives -rrb- and whole grains than federal nutrition standards advise .	packed lunches did not include enough vegetables , fruit , meat or whole grains .
contain	include	VB	contain	include	4	4	home-packed lunches did n't contain enough vegetables , fruit , meat -lrb- or meat alternatives -rrb- or whole grains .	packed lunches did not include enough vegetables , fruit , meat or whole grains .
form	create	VB	form	create	11	14	and the sediments deposited in this lake could be what helped form mount sharp in the first place .	and the mud left on the floor of this lake could be what helped create mount sharp in the first place .
formally	officially	RB	formally	officially	9	3	the findings are from the curiosity rover , known formally as the mars science laboratory .	the rover is officially known as the mars science laboratory .
past	history	NN	past	history	12	7	there , the rover drilled up rocks that revealed signs of a past , water-rich , life-friendly environment on mars .	the rocks showed signs of a fascinating history .
lead	cause	VB	lead	cause	2	2	that can lead to swelling , skin injuries and other problems some of them long-term .	this can cause swelling or sores .
fracture	break	NN	fracture	break	7	7	almost 1 million kids younger than 15 fracture limbs each year , the centers for disease control and prevention found in a 2010 survey .	almost 1 million kids younger than 15 break an arm or leg each year , the centers for disease control and prevention found .
improperly	incorrectly	RB	improperly	incorrectly	23	24	graw said children and their parents also need to be warned not to take off splints , because they could be reapplying them improperly .	graw said children and their parents also need to be warned not to take off splints , because they could put them back on incorrectly .
incorrectly	improperly	RB	incorrectly	improperly	24	19	graw said children and their parents also need to be warned not to take off splints , because they could put them back on incorrectly .	graw said children and their parents should not take off splints , because they could put them back on improperly .
heating	heat	NN	heating	heat	21	8	15 , people who live in apartment complexes north of the boundary line rejoice as the government turns on the central heating plants .	15 each year , the government turns the heat on for the cities north of the line .
major-label	major	JJ	major-label	major	10	15	new compositions are being widely shared , including some from major-label artists .	new songs are being shared with many people and some of them are even from major artists .
singing	song	NN	singing	song	9	4	unaware of its origins , mccoy immediately recorded herself singing nephew 's composition , posted the file on instagram and challenged other singers to do the same .	mccoy immediately recorded the song .
building	house	NN	building	house	16	12	less than half a mile away stands the old state house , the oldest surviving public building in boston , built in 1713 .	less than half a mile away from the '' new '' state house stands the old state house .
house	building	NN	house	building	24	10	not long after , on july 18 , 1776 , the first massachusetts reading of the declaration of independence occurred on the old state house 's balcony .	the declaration of independence from england was read from the building 's balcony in 1776 .
ensemble	orchestra	NN	ensemble	orchestra	9	15	then the entire globe could play in a single ensemble .	if that were possible , then the entire globe could play together in a single orchestra , via the internet .
even	already	RB	even	already	15	4	one of the world 's most endangered crocodiles , the cuban crocodile , is at even greater risk of disappearing than scientists previously realized .	the cuban crocodile was already considered to be one of the world 's most endangered crocodiles .
hybridization	interbreeding	NN	hybridization	interbreeding	8	7	the next step is to determine whether the hybridization of the two species is a natural phenomenon or not .	milin-garca is trying to determine whether the interbreeding of the two species is a natural phenomenon .
trivial	unimportant	JJ	trivial	unimportant	5	5	chili heat rankings may seem trivial , but it 's a burning issue for purveyors of chili sauce , hot sauce , salsa and other fiery concoctions .	chili heat rankings may seem unimportant , but they are a hot issue for people who sell hot sauce , salsa and other spicy treats .
horticulture	gardening	NN	horticulture	gardening	9	8	he read library books about plants and pored over horticulture magazines ordered by his mother , a master gardener .	he read library books about plants and read gardening magazines ordered by his mother , a master gardener .
spicy	hot	JJ	spicy	hot	1	1	his spicy peppers helped him meet his wife , who loves salsa .	his hot peppers helped him meet his wife , who loves salsa .
storefront	store	NN	storefront	store	7	7	two years ago , he opened a storefront location on main street in downtown fort mill .	two years ago , he opened a store on main street in downtown fort mill .
top-secret	secret	JJ	top-secret	secret	11	10	for years , drones were mostly used by the military for top-secret missions and then for bombing and surveillance in iraq and afghanistan .	for years , drones were used by the military for secret missions .
racket	noise	NN	racket	noise	12	10	each propeller hums at a different pitch , which together creates a racket like a hive of angry bees .	drones ' propellers hum at different pitches , creating a noise like a hive of angry bees .
territory	land	NN	territory	land	14	18	lidar cameras operate like radar but use lasers , building intricate 3-d maps of territory and spaces .	new technologies like lidar cameras use lasers to operate like radar and can make intricate 3-d models of land and territory from the sky .
consequence	result	NN	consequence	result	1	1	one consequence of how favela do metro has been neglected is that many newcomers have moved in , despite precarious conditions .	one result of the way in which favela do metro has been neglected is that many newcomers have moved in , despite the terrible conditions .
calculate	estimate	VB	calculate	estimate	5	6	the information is used to calculate injuries for the entire country .	it then used the information to estimate the number of injuries for the entire country .
sector	industry	NN	sector	industry	5	5	the so-called '' ag-tech '' sector has seen booming activity .	the so-called '' ag-tech '' industry has seen booming activity .
scour	search	VB	scour	search	18	11	years of high oil prices , interrupted briefly by the recession , inspired drillers around the world to scour the earth 's crust for more oil .	years of high oil prices inspired drillers around the world to search the earth for more oil .
non-opec	opec	JJ	non-opec	opec	14	3	but now those opec supplies look more certain despite continuing turmoil , and those non-opec supplies have swamped the market .	but now those opec supplies look more certain despite continuing conflicts , and the supplies from countries outside of opec have swamped the market .
signal	sign	NN	signal	sign	9	6	the depth of oil 's plunge could be a signal that the global economy is struggling even more than economists think .	oil 's plunge could be a sign that the global economy is truly struggling .
collapse	drop	NN	collapse	drop	14	14	for oil companies , oil-producing states , and oil-exporting countries , the oil price collapse is painful .	for oil companies , oil-producing states , and oil-exporting countries , the oil price drop is painful .
business	trade	NN	business	trade	5	5	before india began easing its business rules in the early 1990s , growers had to sell their beans to the government .	before india began allowing more trade in the early 1990s , growers had to sell their beans to the government .
release	free	VB	release	free	8	7	the deal calls for the united states to release three cubans convicted of spying on anti-castro groups in florida , they said .	in exchange , the united states will free three cubans .
resist	oppose	VB	resist	oppose	14	14	but anti-castro activists , including the florida delegation in congress , are likely to resist such steps .	however , anti-castro activists , including florida 's congressional delegation , are likely to oppose it .
ban	embargo	NN	ban	embargo	8	7	legally , only congress can lift the trade ban .	legally , only congress can end the embargo .
drink	drinking	NN	drink	drinking	5	8	changing consumer habits , more drink choices and a lack of dairy product innovation are behind the steady decline in milk sales , according to the industry .	one thing is that people are changing their drinking habits .
dairy	milk	NN	dairy	milk	16	17	there are changing consumer habits , more drink choices , and not a lot of new dairy products .	there are also a lot more drink choices now and there are not many new drinks with milk in them .
emphasis	focus	NN	emphasis	focus	5	5	there has also been more emphasis on aseptic packaging , which allows milk to be kept unrefrigerated on a store shelf , much like a juice box .	there has also been more focus on packaging that allows milk to be kept unrefrigerated on a store shelf .
new	recent	JJ	new	recent	19	14	philadelphia a summer jobs program for teenagers appears to cut the rate of violent crime , according to a new study by a university of pennsylvania researcher .	more jobs for teens may lead to less violent crime , according to a recent study of a summer jobs program conducted by a university of pennsylvania researcher .
put	gave	VBD	put	give	14	12	while a few programs have been found to lower crime rates , they all put the kids in housing programs and were costly , he said .	the few programs that have been found to lower crime rates typically gave the participants housing and are more expensive .
youth	teenager	NN	youth	teenager	15	15	the chicago program was called one summer plus and cost less than $ 3,000 per youth .	the chicago program was called one summer plus and cost less than $ 3,000 per teenager .
sure	certain	JJ	sure	certain	9	8	heller said it was too soon to know for sure whether the benefits of the program outweigh the costs .	heller said it was too soon to be certain whether the program was a good use of money .
capability	ability	NN	capability	ability	7	6	experts believe that north korea lacks the capability to hack sony 's computers on its own .	experts believe the country lacks the ability to break into sony 's computers on its own .
couch	sofa	NN	couch	sofa	8	9	kids forced to stay on a friend 's couch for days because mom could n't pay the rent .	there are kids who stay on a friend 's sofa , because their parents can not pay the rent .
man	boy	NN	man	boy	8	4	officers and the board still help the young man who passed out on the football field .	police still help the boy who passed out on the football field .
practitioner	doctor	NN	practitioner	doctor	17	12	a son of the englewood neighborhood on chicago 's south side , richardson has been a solo practitioner of family medicine since 1990 .	a son of chicago 's englewood neighborhood , richardson has been a doctor since 1990 .
low	low-income	JJ	low	low-income	18	5	though the family moved often , they resided around 63rd street and wolcott avenue , an area of low income and high unemployment and crime .	the family lived in a low-income area of high unemployment and crime .
low	poor	JJ	low	poor	18	5	though the family moved often , they resided around 63rd street and wolcott avenue , an area of low income and high unemployment and crime .	the family lived in a poor area with few jobs and much crime .
male	man	NN	male	man	19	9	when he was admitted to rush university 's medical school , richardson recalled , he was the only african-american male in his class .	in medical school , he was the only black man in his class .
volume	amount	NN	volume	amount	1	5	the volume of material overwhelmed richardson , forcing him to study 12 hours a day .	at medical school , the amount of material richardson had to learn overwhelmed him , forcing him to study 12 hours a day .
faith	religion	NN	faith	religion	24	18	an additional 16 percent ascribe to other christian religions , while 18 percent say they are atheists and 27 percent fail to specify any faith .	meanwhile , 18 percent say they do not believe in god and 27 percent fail to specify any religion .
compensation	pay	NN	compensation	pay	20	11	economy minister mihaly varga had urged rejection of the bill , appealing instead for employers to work out mutually agreeable compensation arrangements for those willing to work sundays .	varga appealed instead for employers to work out arrangements for additional pay for those employees willing to work sundays .
humorous	funny	JJ	humorous	funny	13	10	fernandes expanded airasia through a combination of cheap fares , good service and humorous advertising .	fernandes expanded airasia through cheap tickets , good service and funny ads .
employer	boss	NN	employer	boss	25	12	fernandes ' outsized personality and delight in the limelight also contributed to the airline 's success , drawing frequent comparisons to his friend and former employer richard branson .	he has been compared to richard branson , his friend and former boss .
aviation	airline	NN	aviation	airline	2	2	fernandes ' aviation ambitions reportedly date back to his years as a schoolboy at epsom college in britain .	fernandes ' airline dreams started when he was a schoolboy in britain .
food-truck	food	NN	food-truck	food	1	0	the food-truck craze has made it all the way to kabul .	food trucks are popular all over north america .
thoroughfare	street	NN	thoroughfare	street	17	18	on a crisp fall morning , noori visited one of his trucks , parked on a busy thoroughfare in central kabul .	on a fall morning , noori visited one of his trucks , which was parked on a busy street in central kabul .
plain	plain-looking	JJ	plain	plain-looking	8	7	the hot-dog-on-wheels stood out in a sea of plain cars and minibuses .	the hot-dog-on-wheels stood out among all the plain-looking cars and minibuses .
unknown	unfamiliar	JJ	unknown	unfamiliar	20	20	apart from a few supermarkets and restaurants aimed at foreigners , hot dogs are not sold here and are largely unknown .	apart from a few supermarkets and restaurants aimed at foreigners , hot dogs are not sold here and thus are unfamiliar to most people .
nation	state	NN	nation	state	7	10	pork products are forbidden in the islamic nation .	pork products are forbidden in afghanistan because islam is the state religion .
turn	change	VBP	turn	change	1	1	they turn land into a sponge for water .	they change land so that it soaks up water .
alter	change	VBP	alter	change	1	1	they alter land into a sponge that soaks up water .	they change land so that it soaks up water .
inflict	cause	VB	inflict	cause	2	2	they can inflict serious damage on culverts and farmland , and flood homes .	beavers can cause serious damage to underground pipes and farmland .
surf	surfing	NN	surf	surfing	25	11	shapiro has been on a board for most of his life , he said , and for the past few years he worked as a surf instructor .	for the past few years he has also worked as a surfing teacher .
picture	imagine	VB	picture	imagine	11	11	she started wondering what could have happened , but did n't picture it was a shark attack .	she started wondering what could have happened , but did not imagine that he was bitten by a shark .
effort	attempt	NN	effort	attempt	18	18	the law requires the state to define and identify a '' long-term english learner , '' the first effort in the nation to do so .	the law requires the state to define and identify a '' long-term english learner , '' the first attempt in the nation to do so .
secondary	high-school	JJ	secondary	high-school	6	8	they make up three-fourths of all secondary school students still learning english .	they make up three-fourths of all junior-high and high-school students still learning english .
counter-movement	movement	NN	counter-movement	movement	5	6	since proposition 227 , a counter-movement has grown promoting the teaching of two languages in dual-immersion classes .	since the 1998 law , a movement has grown .
language	vocabulary	NN	language	vocabulary	15	19	alvarez said student disinterest is one of his biggest challenges in teaching the more advanced language skills needed for college and careers .	alvarez said a lack of interest by students is one of his biggest challenges in teaching the more difficult vocabulary needed for college and careers .
gruesome	horrifying	JJ	gruesome	horrifying	19	14	but many safety officials are scratching their heads over a trend they say will lead to more and more gruesome deaths on the roads .	many safety officials believe higher speeds will lead to a greater number and more horrifying crashes on the roads .
speed	speeding	NN	speed	speeding	4	16	each year , excessive speed contributes to one-third of highway deaths nationally .	one-third of all highway deaths each year are caused , at least in part , by speeding .
interstate	highway	NN	interstate	highway	16	17	this year , idaho and wyoming raised their top speeds to 80 on some stretches of interstate .	this year , idaho and wyoming raised their top speeds to 80 mph on some stretches of highway .
trucker	driver	NN	trucker	driver	12	13	outside leeds , at a gas station popular with travelers , long-distance trucker jake hansen stopped for coffee and a bathroom break .	outside leeds , at a gas station popular with travelers , long-distance truck driver jake hansen stopped for coffee and a bathroom break .
sit	serve	VBP	sit	serve	10	10	thirty-six hispanic lawmakers are in the house , while three sit in the senate .	thirty-six hispanic lawmakers vote in the house , while three serve in the senate .
incoming	new	JJ	incoming	new	4	2	ninety-two percent of the incoming congress members are christian and 57 percent are protestant , according to new pew research center study .	in the new congress , 92 percent of lawmakers are christian .
larger	higher	JJR	larger	higher	9	3	the proportion of protestants and catholics in congress is larger than in the united states population .	there is a higher proportion of protestants and catholics in congress than in the united states population .
proportion	fraction	NN	proportion	fraction	1	4	the proportion of protestants and catholics in congress is larger than in the united states population .	congress has a bigger fraction of protestants and catholics than the united states , as a whole .
twine	string	NN	twine	string	6	6	the court lines are marked by twine covered in tape , so the players can feel their positions .	the court lines are marked by string covered in tape .
furious	angry	JJ	furious	angry	7	6	they are accustomed to poison-pen letters , furious emails , and insults .	they regularly receive furious letters , angry emails , personal insults .
prize-winning	award-winning	JJ	prize-winning	award-winning	6	4	to joel pett , a pulitzer prize-winning cartoonist at the lexington herald-leader in kentucky , the massacre in france serves as a reminder for cartoonists .	joel pett is an award-winning cartoonist at the lexington herald-leader in kentucky .
fearful	afraid	JJ	fearful	afraid	12	3	he does n't always want to walk , and if he gets fearful , he might sit down and decide not to move .	if he is afraid , he sometimes sits down and will not walk .
safety	security	NN	safety	security	12	9	they boarded the plane , got in their seats , heard the safety messages and were served pretzels and a glass of water .	volunteers at the airport took families through a special security gate , then they boarded the plane and got in their seats .
flight	trip	NN	flight	trip	3	5	the fastest little flight to nowhere .	it was the fastest little trip to nowhere .
building	construction	NN	building	construction	3	13	eager to make building toys , mattel in april acquired mega brands , known for its construction sets .	in april , mattel bought the company mega brands , known for its construction sets , to get more into construction toys .
human-like	human	JJ	human-like	human	14	10	the sets have bright colors with lots of purple , and come with more human-like figures .	the sets have bright colors and figures that look very human .
storytelling	story	NN	storytelling	story	16	16	while boys are often satisfied just by building something cool-looking , girls want more narrative and storytelling in their construction toys , experts say .	while boys are often satisfied just by building something cool-looking , girls want more of a story behind their construction toys , experts say .
enable	let	VBP	enable	let	2	2	later sets enable kids to build miniature spinning windmills and elevators that go up and down .	newer sets let kids build miniature spinning windmills and working elevators .
school	class	NN	school	class	2	9	the elementary school teacher said she has noticed that building blocks are a hit with both her male and female students .	she said that both boys and girls in her class like building blocks .
grad	graduate	NN	grad	graduate	2	2	another stanford grad with an engineering degree , debbie sterling , founded goldieblox , one of the most talked-about toy start-ups this holiday season .	another stanford graduate with an engineering degree , debbie sterling , started goldieblox .
ceremony	event	NN	ceremony	event	10	8	princess anne was the reason for all the pomp and ceremony .	princess anne was the reason for the big event .
post	job	NN	post	job	7	8	only a dozen others have held the post since the library began in 1800 .	only a dozen others have held the same job since the library began in 1800 .
accessible	available	JJ	accessible	available	17	20	billington said his mission is to continue to make the vast trove assigned to his care more accessible to the public .	his mission , he said , is to continue to make the vast collection assigned to his care more easily available to the public .
rational	logical	JJ	rational	logical	4	4	that 's the only rational explanation for why 13 years after the terror attacks of sept .	that 's the only logical explanation for why senate intelligence committee democrats released such a graphic report 13 years after the terror attacks of sept .
gruesome	horrible	JJ	gruesome	horrible	23	18	in fact , news surfaced years ago that the cia deprived suspects of sleep , chained them to walls , threatened them with gruesome death and so on .	we knew then that they kept suspects from sleeping , chained them to walls , threatened them with horrible deaths and so on .
heinous	horrifying	JJ	heinous	horrifying	3	3	what later seems heinous often seems vital at the time .	what later seems horrifying often seems vital at the time .
vital	necessary	JJ	vital	necessary	6	6	what later seems heinous often seems vital at the time .	what later seems horrifying often seems necessary at the time .
lack	need	VBP	lack	need	23	13	that means less intelligence from around the world will flow to washington , leaving us more vulnerable to plots that our intelligence services lack the information to prevent .	less information leaves us more open to plots , because our intelligence services need that information to prevent attacks .
judgment	decision	NN	judgment	decision	6	6	america debated torture and rendered its judgment long ago .	america debated torture and made a decision years ago .
transparency	openness	NN	transparency	openness	20	20	columbus , ohio the senate intelligence committee 's release of its report on cia torture is a welcome step toward transparency .	columbus , ohio the senate intelligence committee 's release of its report on cia torture is a welcome step toward openness .
reaction	overreaction	NN	reaction	overreaction	7	6	the torture was part of an oversized reaction to sept .	the torture was part of an overreaction to sept .
foreign	international	JJ	foreign	international	16	20	in the long term , the safety of america will depend on how we deal with foreign policy issues overall , not just this one .	in the long term , the safety of the united states will depend on how we deal with all our international issues , not just this one .
premature	early	JJ	premature	early	20	12	a separate study conducted by researchers at two chinese universities estimated that in 2012 , burning coal led to 670,000 premature deaths in china .	another study estimated that in 2012 , burning coal led to 670,000 early deaths in china .
top	main	JJ	top	main	7	7	now , pollution routinely is among the top issues the chinese worry about , said pollster victor yuan .	now , pollution is one of the main things the chinese worry about .
general	public	JJ	general	public	2	1	translating that general concern into specific pressure for cleaning the air is where ma 's pollution map comes in .	creating public pressure for clean air is where ma 's pollution app comes in .
summit	meeting	NN	summit	meeting	10	9	ma cites the blue skies at november 's asia-pacific economic summit in beijing as proof of what can be achieved .	he pointed to the blue skies at a recent meeting of world leaders in beijing as proof of what can be achieved .
extraordinary	exceptional	JJ	extraordinary	exceptional	4	4	the chinese government took extraordinary steps to clear the air , including shutting down polluting factories across the region and giving government workers days off to reduce traffic .	the chinese government took exceptional steps to clear the air .
program	plan	NN	program	plan	1	2	the program , inspired by new initiatives in tennessee and chicago , could benefit up to 9 million students , advisers said .	obama 's plan , inspired by new programs in tennessee and chicago , could benefit up to 9 million students , his advisers said .
great	many	JJ	great	many	8	3	even among such company , pooh matters a great deal to new yorkers .	he matters to many new yorkers , too .
pooh	winnie-the-pooh	NN	pooh	winnie-the-pooh	3	3	the article compared pooh , a british cultural treasure , to '' moby dick , '' one of the great american novels .	the article compared winnie-the-pooh to '' moby dick , '' one of the greatest american books ever written .
briefing	meeting	NN	briefing	meeting	11	11	it was one of the few light moments during the emotional briefing , during which luzier repeatedly choked up and paused , or rubbed tears from his eyes .	it was one of the few light moments at the emotional meeting , during which luzier repeatedly choked up or rubbed tears from his eyes .
jet	airplane	NN	jet	airplane	10	11	los angeles the scene was unremarkable : a white gulfstream jet parked alongside a chain-link fence at van nuys airport .	los angeles the scene was a normal one : a white airplane parked alongside a fence at van nuys airport here .
ordinary	normal	JJ	ordinary	normal	9	6	los angeles the scene was nothing out of the ordinary : a white gulfstream jet parked at van nuys airport here .	los angeles the scene was a normal one : a white airplane parked alongside a fence at van nuys airport here .
affordable	cheap	JJ	affordable	cheap	4	5	factor in a severe affordable housing crunch , and vulnerable families easily '' topple over the cliff , '' decandia said .	add in the lack of cheap housing , and low-income families easily '' topple over the cliff , '' decandia said .
previous	last	JJ	previous	last	2	0	in the previous school year , there were nearly 60,000 school children in illinois who were identified as homeless , more than double the 2008-2009 school year .	last school year , nearly 60,000 school children in illinois were identified as homeless , double the number in 2008-2009 school year .
last	previous	JJ	last	previous	0	2	last school year , nearly 60,000 school children in illinois were identified as homeless , double the number in 2008-2009 school year .	in the previous school year , nearly 60,000 school children in illinois were identified as homeless .
member	lawmaker	NN	member	lawmaker	6	4	he is a california state assembly member who would like to see more effort to deal with child homelessness in california .	he is a california lawmaker who would like to see his state work harder to end child homelessness .
work	effort	NN	work	effort	12	7	he is a california lawmaker who would like to see his state work harder to end child homelessness .	he would like to see a better effort to end child homelessness in california .
goal	target	NN	goal	target	5	5	since last summer , their goal has been to destroy the islamic state group .	since last summer , their target has been the islamic state fighters .
munitions	bombs	NNS	munitions	bomb	8	8	about three-quarters of the aircraft return without dropping munitions .	about three-quarters of the aircraft return without dropping bombs .
assist	help	VBP	assist	help	3	2	these self-appointed volunteers assist long-distance hikers on one of the most grinding outdoor challenges in the world comparable , many say , to summiting mt .	trail angels help long-distance hikers along what is one of the most difficult trails in the world .
remarkable	tremendous	JJ	remarkable	tremendous	19	9	the sacrifices many parents in the crowd have made on behalf of their children 's athletic careers are as remarkable for their size as for their duration .	she and other parents in the crowd have made tremendous sacrifices to help their children pursue their dreams of an athletic career .
schedule	time	NN	schedule	time	27	10	abdelziz said that over the past 10 years , she has hosted relatives at her house less and less because of her son 's game and practice schedule .	over the past 10 years , abdelziz has spent less time with family members .
ball	basketball	NN	ball	basketball	7	7	then there is the allure of playing ball in college .	then there is the glory of playing basketball in college .
tobacco	smoke	NN	tobacco	smoke	22	8	although china is known for its smog and other environment problems , no public health issue poses more of a threat than tobacco .	china is known for its smog created by smoke from factories and cars .
smoking	tobacco	NN	smoking	tobacco	3	12	the battle against smoking is far from won , however .	smoking has gone down over the years , but the battle against tobacco is far from won .
advent	arrival	NN	advent	arrival	3	2	but with the advent of cigarettes , chinese intellectuals and foreign missionaries started frowning on women who smoked .	with the arrival of cigarettes , however , chinese intellectuals and foreign missionaries started frowning on women who smoked .
plot	plan	NN	plot	plan	16	16	their families and loved ones have shared in the odyssey , watching the men study , plot and train for the agonizing endeavor .	their families and loved ones have shared in their journey , watching the men study , plan and train for the agonizing feat .
memorable	unforgettable	JJ	memorable	unforgettable	7	7	wednesday 's conclusion is just the latest memorable experience for tommy caldwell .	wednesday 's summit is just the latest unforgettable experience for caldwell .
gusto	enthusiasm	NN	gusto	enthusiasm	19	17	he is known as one of the world 's top bouldering climbers , tackling 400-foot pieces of rock with gusto and no ropes .	he is known as one of the world 's top boulder climbers , tackling 400-foot-high rocks with enthusiasm and no ropes .
seize	capture	VB	seize	capture	4	4	the goal is to seize on history as it happens .	the goal is to capture history as it happens .
capture	collect	VB	capture	collect	4	4	the goal is to capture history as it happens .	the goal is to collect history as it happens .
incorporate	include	VB	incorporate	include	4	4	the program eventually will incorporate mariachi singing instruction .	the program eventually will include mariachi singing instruction .
fetch	get	VB	fetch	get	8	11	after his arrival , watson was asked to fetch wood for a campfire .	after he arrived at mount theo , watson was asked to get wood for a campfire .
forcefully	strongly	RB	forcefully	strongly	4	4	native american groups have forcefully opposed serra 's road to sainthood , saying the native californians who built the missions were forced into labor and often punished harshly .	native american groups have strongly opposed serra 's road to sainthood , saying the native californians who built the missions were forced to work and often punished harshly .
re-evaluate	reconsider	VB	re-evaluate	reconsider	5	6	he wants the vatican to re-evaluate serra 's sainthood .	lopez hopes the catholic church will reconsider serra 's sainthood .
re-think	reconsider	VB	re-think	reconsider	15	6	lopez hopes the vatican , the headquarters of the catholic church in rome , will re-think serra 's sainthood .	lopez hopes the catholic church will reconsider serra 's sainthood .
welcome	happy	JJ	welcome	happy	16	15	but a member of the ohlone tribe , andrew galvan , said sainthood for serra is welcome .	but a member of the ohlone tribe , andrew galvan , said he is extremely happy to hear of serra 's upcoming sainthood .
extremely	quite	RB	extremely	quite	14	14	but a member of the ohlone tribe , andrew galvan , said he is extremely happy to hear of serra 's upcoming sainthood .	but a member of the ohlone tribe , andrew galvan , said he is quite happy to hear of serra 's upcoming sainthood .
path	road	NN	path	road	4	6	another californian on the path to sainthood is cora evans , a devout catholic who lived quietly in the santa cruz mountains and died in 1957 .	there is another californian on the road to sainthood : cora evans , a dedicated catholic who lived quietly in the santa cruz mountains and died in 1957 .
leave	vacation	NN	leave	vacation	8	9	obama also is asking lawmakers to increase paid leave for workers .	obama is also asking lawmakers to give workers more vacation time or sick days .
prison	jail	NN	prison	jail	8	8	the man spent 17 years in a cuban prison for opposing the country 's communist government .	the man spent 17 years in a cuban jail for protesting the country 's communist government .
toughest	hardest	JJS	toughest	hardest	9	9	this fall , the teens wrote stories about the toughest moments they have faced in life .	the students spent all fall writing stories about their hardest moments in life .
truly	actually	RB	truly	actually	11	10	but researchers have long argued about how high these birds might truly fly , and how on earth they manage to do it .	but scientists have long argued about how high the birds actually fly , and how on earth they manage to do it .
flight	air	NN	flight	air	21	20	to find out , a team of scientists from bangor university in wales needed to collect data from the birds during flight .	to find out , a team of researchers needed to collect data from the birds while they were in the air .
heart	heartbeat	NN	heart	heartbeat	19	14	so they outfitted bar-headed geese with customized implantable instruments that measured their body temperature , pressure , acceleration and heart rate during flight .	so they attached instruments to the geese to measure body temperature , speed and heartbeat .
raise	lift	VB	raise	lift	6	6	the program 's goal is to raise the graduation rate of foster kids to the same level as their non-foster peers -lrb- currently 75 percent -rrb- by 2017 .	the program 's goal is to lift the graduation rate of foster kids to the same level as their non-foster classmates -lrb- currently 75 percent -rrb- by 2017 .
thus	therefore	RB	thus	therefore	0	0	thus , both appeared the same when x-rayed , and it was practically impossible to tell ink and paper apart .	therefore , both papyrus and ink appeared to be the same when x-rayed .
worried	concerned	JJ	worried	concerned	9	13	the staff at the british columbia aquarium was very worried about a copper rockfish that had an eye surgically removed after a cataract rupture .	the staff at the aquarium in british columbia , canada , were very concerned about a copper rockfish that had an eye surgically removed after a cataract rupture .
good	healthy	JJ	good	healthy	13	12	that is why it is very important to make sure they have a good life in the aquarium .	that 's why it is so important to make sure they are healthy and happy in aquariums .
very	so	RB	very	so	5	5	that is why it is very important to make sure they have a good life in the aquarium .	that 's why it is so important to make sure they are healthy and happy in aquariums .
arise	come	VBP	arise	come	15	16	one-on-one '' harm circles '' are formed between students , parents and counselors when conflicts arise .	one-on-one '' harm circles '' let students , parents and counselors meet when problems between students come up .
parallel	similar	JJ	parallel	similar	2	7	those numbers parallel declines seen in schools across the district .	other schools across the district have seen similar declines .
populated	crowded	JJ	populated	crowded	10	8	the storm could shut down the nation 's most densely populated region for days , closing schools and businesses from monday afternoon through the week , officials warned .	it could shut down the nation 's most crowded region for days .
alarm	worry	NN	alarm	worry	8	7	for years , education leaders have sounded the alarm on the state of civics education .	for years , education leaders have expressed worry about the state of civics education .
much	large	JJ	much	large	5	5	but the news was very much on the minds of muslims at the booths , and others at the mosque .	but for muslims at this large mosque , the recent attacks were on their minds .
legislator	lawmaker	NN	legislator	lawmaker	7	6	jason parent is a new hampshire state legislator who also owns a hunting guide service .	jason parent is a new hampshire lawmaker .
continuously	constantly	RB	continuously	constantly	3	4	because the bar continuously shifts a bit , its angle relative to the earth changes over time .	because the bar shifts constantly , its angle relative to the earth changes over time .
well	far	RB	well	far	10	10	there are now more than 70 patients across california as well as six other states and mexico .	more than 70 people have now caught the disease so far .
court	courtroom	NN	court	courtroom	12	7	prosecutor kevin brackett apologized to the men eight of whom were in court .	eight of the men were in the courtroom .
rights	men	NNS	rights	man	11	2	fifty-four years ago , the eight college students and one civil rights organizer were convicted of trespassing and protesting at mccrory variety store in rock hill .	all nine men were convicted of trespassing and protesting at mccrory variety store in rock hill .
judge	justice	NN	judge	justice	7	0	brackett 's request to a rock hill judge came too late for mccullough , who died in 2006 .	justice came too late for mccullough , who died in 2006 .
sew	stitch	VB	sew	stitch	15	8	the programs offer hands-on experiences to students who can shadow paramedics during 12-hour shifts , sew sutures into chicken legs and assist at hospitals .	they can follow paramedics during 12-hour shifts , stitch up chicken legs and assist at hospitals .
keep	stick	VB	keep	stick	14	5	the teenager said the fact that doctors make a good living pushed her to keep with it .	the teenager said she will stick with it , because doctors make a good salary .
stay	stick	VB	stay	stick	16	5	the teenager said doctors make a good living , and that fact has pushed her to stay with it .	the teenager said she will stick with it , because doctors make a good salary .
discipline	field	NN	discipline	field	7	7	even if garrett chose a different medical discipline , federal data suggest there are plenty of jobs available and more on the horizon .	even if garrett chose a different medical field , federal data suggest there are plenty of jobs available now and more on the horizon .
pay	provide	VB	pay	provide	13	8	it is the only state that has not raised the necessary money to pay its share , department of defense spokesman mark wright said .	it is the only state that will not provide money for the repairs , department of defense spokesman mark wright said .
worst	eighth-worst	JJS	worst	eighth-worst	4	3	branch is the eighth worst out of 160 schools on its list .	branch is the eighth-worst out of 160 schools on the defense department 's list .
maintenance	repair	NN	maintenance	repair	9	9	public school districts are often able to cover major maintenance and construction costs with the help of voter-approved bond money generated through property taxes .	public school districts are often able to cover major repair and construction costs with money from property taxes .
total	entire	JJ	total	entire	15	14	without the federal aid , fuller said , california may eventually have to pay the total cost of repairs .	without the federal aid , fuller said , california may have to pay the entire cost of repairs itself .
tally	count	NN	tally	count	8	5	aydin and lewis know because they keep a tally of the places where they 've heard from students and teachers .	aydin and lewis have kept count of the schools where they 've heard from students and teachers .
monumental	huge	JJ	monumental	huge	11	10	linstead acknowledged that to make any widespread changes would be a monumental task .	linstead admitted that making any widespread changes would be a huge task .
orthography	spelling	NN	orthography	spelling	19	16	portugal recently implemented sweeping changes to switch all portuguese-language use in several countries over to the brazilian system of orthography , which is more phonetic .	portugal recently implemented sweeping changes to switch all portuguese-language use over to the brazilian system of spelling , which is more phonetic .
barrio	neighborhood	NN	barrio	neighborhood	8	7	she avoids shopping in the valles del tuy barrio where she lives because the '' law of the jungle '' is what prevails there .	she will not go shopping in her neighborhood , because the '' law of the jungle '' is what rules there .
considerable	many	JJ	considerable	many	5	4	delgado is among the still considerable supporters of the late hugo chavez .	delgado is among the many people who supported the late hugo chavez and are still behind the government .
least	lowest	JJS	least	lowest	15	15	president maduro announced an increase in the minimum wage for workers , which is the least amount of money a person can get paid for work .	president maduro announced an increase in the minimum wage for workers , which is the lowest amount someone can be paid for doing a job .
amount	money	NN	amount	money	16	8	president maduro announced an increase in the minimum wage for workers , which is the lowest amount someone can be paid for doing a job .	the minimum wage is the least amount of money someone can get paid to work .
provoke	cause	VB	provoke	cause	19	18	some associated video games with an increased risk of epileptic seizures , while others cautioned that the games could provoke dangerously elevated heart rates .	some associated video games with an increased risk of epileptic seizures , while others warned that gaming could cause dangerously elevated heart rates .
contribute	make	VB	contribute	make	19	9	ferguson has done dozens of studies on the subject and has consistently found that violent video games do not contribute to societal aggression .	ferguson has found that violent video games do not make kids more violent .
islamic	pre-islamic	JJ	islamic	pre-islamic	14	6	they already have destroyed many archaeological relics , deeming them pagan , and even islamic sites considered idolatrous .	the group already has destroyed many pre-islamic archaeological relics , deeming them pagan .
printing	print	NN	printing	print	5	5	the publisher plans a first printing of 2 million copies .	the publisher is planning to print 2 million copies to start .
book	e-book	NN	book	e-book	2	9	the new book also will be available in an electronic edition .	the new book also will be available as an e-book .
tackle	deal	VB	tackle	deal	8	13	valls convened a special government meeting thursday to tackle this societal divide .	valls called for a special government meeting to come up with ways to deal with this divide in french society .
transport	transportation	NN	transport	transportation	14	15	soaring unemployment , a high crime rate and even lack of access to public transport fed a deep sense of inequality .	soaring unemployment , a high crime rate and even a lack of access to public transportation to get to jobs fed a deep sense of inequality .
universe	world	NN	universe	world	4	4	it remains a different universe from the government palaces of the capital , just a few miles away .	it remains a different world from the government palaces of the capital , just a few miles away .
snowpack	snow	NN	snowpack	snow	23	19	los angeles state workers performed a california winter ritual last week , poking hollow aluminum tubes into sierra nevada meadows to measure the snowpack .	los angeles on thursday , california workers poked hollow tubes into sierra nevada meadows to measure the amount of snow .
snow	snowpack	NN	snow	snowpack	24	10	a dry january is partly to blame , and the storms that hit the state in december dumped heavy amounts of rain , not snow .	a dry january was partly to blame for the shrinking snowpack .
gradually	slowly	RB	gradually	slowly	3	5	the snow melts gradually over several months , trickling down mountainsides into rivers and swelling reservoirs in the spring and early summer .	normally , the snow melts slowly over several months .
already	even	RB	already	even	11	0	cayan added that the 1-degree fahrenheit temperature rise since the 1950s already has reduced 5 percent to 10 percent of the spring snowpack in california and the west .	even that single degree increase has already cost california and the west 5 percent to 10 percent of its snowpack .
specific	exact	JJ	specific	exact	14	8	called rule curves , the operating manuals consist of pen-and-ink drawings that show the specific reservoir level that managers are supposed to maintain on a given date .	they consist of pen-and-ink drawings that show the exact reservoir level that managers are supposed to maintain on a given date .
river	water	NN	river	water	3	12	if an atmospheric river was headed for the sierra , for instance , managers could adjust the reservoir levels to make sure they captured the increased runoff .	if heavy rains were headed for the sierra , for instance , water could be released from the reservoirs to make room .
entire	complete	JJ	entire	complete	15	16	audet estimates that the high school is about three to four years away from an entire ag-based curriculum .	audet estimates that the high school is about three to four years away from becoming a complete agricultural school .
sense	feeling	NN	sense	feeling	14	13	along with teaching skills , students say ffa has also provided them with a sense of belonging .	along with teaching skills , students say ffa has also provided them a feeling of belonging .
deal	treat	NN	deal	treat	14	18	brown 's death prompted cities and towns across america to re-evaluate the way police deal with african-americans especially young black men .	brown 's death led cities and towns across america to take a close look at the way police treat african-americans especially young men .
intently	closely	RB	intently	closely	12	8	at the city hall meeting , khristian roberson , 18 , listened intently as several police officers most of them black answered questions .	at the meeting , 18-year-old khristian roberson listened closely as several police officers answered questions .
let	give	VB	let	give	3	11	roberson said he let the officer , who was also black , search his car and was let go without a ticket .	roberson said the officer , who was black , did not give him a ticket .
behave	act	VB	behave	act	17	12	after listening to the police presentation , roberson said it helped refresh his memory of how to behave when stopped by police .	roberson said the police presentation was a good reminder about how to act if stopped by police .
movement	move	NN	movement	move	8	8	a '' threatening motion '' is any sudden movement , especially in the dark .	a '' threatening motion '' is any sudden move , especially in the dark .
back	shoulder	NN	back	shoulder	27	19	once in the united states , he was free to walk down the street with his oud , a guitar-like middle eastern instrument , slung across his back .	in the united states , abdullateef was free to walk down the street with his oud slung over his shoulder .
lawyer	attorney	NN	lawyer	attorney	2	2	washington immigration lawyer david garfield took abdulateef 's case pro bono , which means working for free .	abdulateef 's attorney , david garfield , took his case for free .
idea	thinking	NN	idea	thinking	12	5	abdulateef said he did not come to the united states with the idea of applying for asylum .	abdulateef said he was not thinking of asylum when he first came to the united states .
want	dream	VBP	want	dream	16	16	his experiences are unique , but they also echo the faded hopes of many iraqis who want to live in a country where basic freedoms are protected .	while his experiences are unique , they also echo the faded hopes of many iraqis who dream of living in a country where basic freedoms are protected .
vaccine	shot	NN	vaccine	shot	13	7	medical groups say that children should get their first dose of the mmr vaccine at 12 to 15 months old .	doctors say children should get the first shot at 12 to 15 months old .
child	girl	NN	child	girl	1	1	the child broke out into a rash that covered every inch of her body '' it was even in her ears , '' said her mother .	the girl broke out into a rash that covered every inch of her body .
decline	loss	NN	decline	loss	2	1	the resulting decline in cultivable land is a pressing concern for bangladesh , one of the world 's most densely populated countries .	the loss of usable land is a pressing concern in bangladesh , one of the world 's most densely populated countries .
straightforward	easy	JJ	straightforward	easy	7	5	growing the vertical gardens is a relatively straightforward process .	growing the vertical gardens is easy .
survive	live	VBP	survive	live	13	12	this goes a long way for the rural poor in bangladesh , who survive on a few dollars a day .	it goes a long way for poor villagers in bangladesh , who live on a just few dollars a day .
blubber	fat	NN	blubber	fat	15	15	california sea lions were killed in the 1800s and early 1900s for their hides and blubber .	california sea lions were killed in the 1800s and early 1900s for their fur and fat .
lower-income	low-income	JJ	lower-income	low-income	3	3	sports participation among lower-income students decreased by 10 percent compared to the may 2012 poll on the same subject .	sports participation among low-income students was 10 percent lower than it was in 2012 .
especially	particularly	RB	especially	particularly	4	15	however , some parents especially when costs for equipment and travel were included paid more than $ 400 for their children 's participation .	however , some parents paid more than $ 400 for their children 's participation , particularly when costs for equipment and travel were included .
clear	clean	JJ	clear	clean	20	18	los angeles one of the first things steve barnett did when he became chairman of capitol records in 2012 was clear out the building 's lobby .	los angeles when steve barnett became the boss at capitol records , the first thing he did was clean out the offices .
pick	choose	VB	pick	choose	18	13	a big part of capitol 's improvement has been barnett 's ability to anticipate the future and to pick artists that could become big stars .	a big part of capitol 's improvement has been barnett 's ability to choose the artists and anticipate which ones could become big stars .
singer-songwriter	singer	NN	singer-songwriter	singer	16	15	in 2014 , capitol had two of the biggest new artists of the year : british singer-songwriter sam smith and the australian boy band 5 seconds of summer .	in 2014 , capitol hired two of the biggest new artists of the year : singer sam smith and the boy band 5 seconds of summer .
group	band	NN	group	band	9	7	smith and another brit signing to capitol , synth-pop group bastille , were nominated for best new artist for the 2015 grammy awards .	smith and bastille , a british pop band also on the capitol label , were nominated for grammys as best new artist .
information	news	NN	information	news	3	7	they received further information in a memo that weekend anchor lester holt would for now continue to handle the weekday broadcast .	they received a memo that the weekend news anchor , lester holt , would host the weekday broadcast .
cite	refer	VB	cite	refer	3	3	she did not cite williams ' remarks about his experience covering hurricane katrina in 2005 , which helped win the anchor a peabody award .	she did not refer to williams ' remarks about his experience covering hurricane katrina in 2005 , which helped win the anchor a peabody journalism award .
erroneous	incorrect	JJ	erroneous	incorrect	3	3	his most flagrantly erroneous retelling of the helicopter incident was on the '' late show with david letterman '' in 2013 .	his most flagrantly incorrect retelling of the helicopter incident was on the '' late show with david letterman '' in 2013 .
netted	netted-off	JJ	netted	netted-off	14	14	garrett said the plan for lolita calls for her to be taken to a netted area of the cove , which could be enlarged later .	garrett said if lolita is freed , she would first be taken to a netted-off area of the bay .
sequencing	sequence	NN	sequencing	sequence	7	4	the program promises to perform whole genome sequencing on 100,000 types of common foodborne pathogens .	the program promises to sequence the genetic material of 100,000 types of pathogens spread through food .
monitoring	measuring	NN	monitoring	measuring	1	1	his monitoring site is located on chews ridge , more than 5,000 feet above sea level .	his measuring instruments are located on chews ridge in the santa lucia mountains .
deal	agreement	NN	deal	agreement	2	2	such a deal is unlikely , he said .	such an agreement is unlikely , cooper said .
focus	attention	NN	focus	attention	2	6	the recent focus on ozone from asia has drawn criticism from health advocates .	some believe there is too much attention on ozone from asia .
devote	focus	VB	devote	focus	7	7	they say state and local regulators should devote their resources to curbing emissions from cars , factories , farms and other sources they have the power to control .	they say state and local regulators should focus on curbing emissions from cars , factories , farms and other sources they have the power to control .
issue	asia	NN	issue	asia	6	5	still , the attention to the issue is a major shift from decades ago .	the attention to pollution from asia is a major shift from past years .
decline	decrease	VB	decline	decrease	9	10	left unchanged , the supply of skilled workers will decline more leaving some 5 million jobs vacant by 2018 .	if nothing changes , the supply of skilled workers will decrease even more leaving some 5 million jobs empty by 2018 .
essence	nature	NN	essence	nature	1	1	the essence of enterprise is solving problems and fulfilling needs , so it should surprise no one that business leaders are innovating their way out of the problem .	the nature of enterprise is solving problems and fulfilling needs , so it should surprise no one that business leaders are innovating their way out of the problem .
establish	build	VB	establish	build	4	4	businesses plan ahead and establish processes and relationships with trusted suppliers .	businesses plan ahead and build relationships with trusted suppliers .
source	supply	NN	source	supply	17	2	talent pipeline management is n't much different from the state-of-the-art supply chain principles that companies use to source goods , capital or information .	companies use supply chains to find parts and goods , money or information .
point	say	VB	point	say	8	7	the education partner benefits by being able to point to concrete job opportunities for its graduates , thus raising its competitive edge and helping recruit students .	the school benefits by being able to say that it finds jobs for its graduates .
prospects	opportunities	NNS	prospects	opportunity	12	13	and those students ultimately receive an education that comes with real job prospects .	and those new students will receive an education that comes with real job opportunities .
enable	help	VB	enable	help	16	2	it will help create opportunities for individuals and ensure a steady flow of qualified workers to enable businesses to thrive and grow .	it will help create opportunities for individuals and make sure there are skilled workers ready to help businesses thrive and grow .
qualified	skilled	JJ	qualified	skilled	13	12	it will help create opportunities for individuals and ensure a steady flow of qualified workers to enable businesses to thrive and grow .	it will help create opportunities for individuals and make sure there are skilled workers ready to help businesses thrive and grow .
create	design	VB	create	design	19	16	baltimore at first , it sounds like a good idea : have businesses partner with universities and colleges to create vocational coursework .	baltimore it sounds like a good idea : have businesses partner with universities and colleges to design courses to teach skills .
variety	range	NN	variety	range	19	9	there 's just one major hitch : the primary purpose of education is to develop citizens with a wide variety of skills .	the purpose of education is to develop a wide range of skills .
poor	wrong	JJ	poor	wrong	12	9	that 's why the recent plan launched by business groups is a poor one .	that 's why the plan by business groups is wrong .
remedy	solution	NN	remedy	solution	1	1	the remedy is not to have schools create new and easier courses to accommodate students who are n't legitimate college prospects .	the solution is not to have schools create new and easier courses for students who are n't meant for college .
spend	go	VBP	spend	go	11	2	typically they attend vocational schools two days a week and then spend three days a week as an apprentice in a profession they choose .	usually they go to vocational schools two days a week .
radical	militant	JJ	radical	militant	6	24	a program for a brunch honoring radical professor angela davis , whose defense on murder charges she supported .	they range from a peanut butter pancake recipe scribbled on the back of a bank envelope , to a program for a brunch honoring militant activist angela davis .
true	real	JJ	true	real	6	7	scientists did n't consider these calls true language , said study co-author simon townsend .	scientists did not consider this to be real language , said study co-author simon townsend .
little	much	RB	little	much	8	7	for the first two years , though , little changed .	for the first two years , not much changed .
gap	difference	NN	gap	difference	6	6	states are beginning to highlight that gap as a serious problem .	states are beginning to see that difference as a serious problem .
billboard	sign	NN	billboard	sign	11	11	two months ago , the texas association of business rented a billboard in austin , where the state university system is headquartered .	two months ago , the texas association of business rented a sign .
disadvantaged	needy	JJ	disadvantaged	needy	11	12	there are a number of proven programs for students from traditionally disadvantaged backgrounds , '' soto said .	soto said there are a number of proven programs for students from needy backgrounds .
profoundly	deeply	RB	profoundly	deeply	14	13	there are few places the lure of a new bomber can be felt more profoundly than palmdale , california .	in few places can the lure of a new bomber be felt more deeply than palmdale , california .
evade	avoid	VB	evade	avoid	14	8	officials say they need the bomber , which would be so secret it could evade the most advanced enemy radar .	it would fly so secretly that it could avoid the most advanced enemy radar .
stem	stop	VB	stem	stop	1	1	to stem criticism of the program 's cost , military officials have vowed to limit the bomber 's price to $ 550 million each .	to stop criticism of the program 's cost , military officials have vowed to limit the bomber 's price to $ 550 million each .
repeatedly	often	RB	repeatedly	often	5	5	the congressional budget office has repeatedly pointed to the new bomber as a program that could be cut .	congress ' staff members have often said the new bomber is not necessary .
ecstatic	overjoyed	JJ	ecstatic	overjoyed	0	1	ecstatic couples received marriage licenses in scenes similar to those in many other states that had legalized same-sex marriage .	various overjoyed couples received marriage licenses in scenes similar to those in other states that have legalized same-sex marriage .
many	various	JJ	many	various	11	0	ecstatic couples received marriage licenses in scenes similar to those in many other states that had legalized same-sex marriage .	various overjoyed couples received marriage licenses in scenes similar to those in other states that have legalized same-sex marriage .
marriage	couple	NN	marriage	couple	25	10	she and tori sisson of tuskegee had camped out in a blue and white tent and became the first in montgomery county to receive a marriage license .	she and tori sisson of tuskegee became the first gay couple in montgomery county to marry .
ground	area	NN	ground	area	9	11	they begged him to move the structure to secure ground , the way parishioners had relocated the nearby star of the sea catholic church months earlier .	his children begged him to move the structure to a safe area .
price	value	NN	price	value	5	5	the swiss police said the price of the painting has gone up since 2013 , when it was first discovered that it existed .	the swiss police said the value of the painting has gone up since it was discovered .
painting	picture	NN	painting	picture	4	4	pedretti is convinced the painting is old and quite likely from da vinci 's lifetime , but some details were painted later .	pedretti is convinced the picture is old and important .
value	price	NN	value	price	10	5	those stories have created a bidding war and raised the value of the painting , said alessandro vezzosi .	those stories have raised the price of the painting , said alessandro vezzosi .
parkland	park	NN	parkland	park	8	9	the university of chicago 's quest to use parkland was the latest in a long and complicated history of land fights involving presidential libraries , hufbauer said .	the university 's plan to use land in a park is n't the only one to have troubles .
definition	meaning	NN	definition	meaning	8	8	in little rock , officials battled over the definition of a park .	in little rock , officials argued over the meaning of a park .
roadway	road	NN	roadway	road	12	11	for him , it was over a decades-old plan to build a roadway through olmsted linear park in atlanta .	to get to his library , he wanted to build a road through olmsted linear park in atlanta , georgia .
thrilling	exciting	JJ	thrilling	exciting	17	11	los angeles theme park designer edward marks and his team have dreamed up some of the most thrilling attractions in the united states .	los angeles edward marks has dreamed up some of the most exciting amusement park attractions in the united states .
folklore	folk	NN	folklore	folk	6	7	they must become experts on local folklore and cultural superstitions , and arm themselves with an ample supply of patience .	he must become an expert on chinese folk stories and superstitions .
business	industry	NN	business	industry	13	8	these are welcome challenges for marks and others in california 's theme park business .	marks and others in california 's theme park industry are happy to learn those rules .
design	plan	VB	design	plan	12	12	american companies charge $ 500,000 to $ 7 million apiece just to design the amusement parks .	american design firms can make $ 500,000 to $ 7 million to plan an amusement park .
relax	ease	VB	relax	ease	9	8	a recent move by the chinese central government to relax building permits for theme parks has also spurred development .	a recent move by the chinese government to ease up on building permits for theme parks has also encouraged development .
bombing	bomb	NN	bombing	bomb	9	6	the weekly book market was destroyed by a car bombing seven years ago that took 26 lives .	seven years ago , a car bomb blew up the weekly market and killed 26 people .
courtyard	yard	NN	courtyard	yard	14	17	a few steps from the statue , dozens lined up to enter the open-air courtyard of a cultural center where writers gather weekly to share their work .	a few steps from the statue , dozens of people stood in line to enter the open-air yard of an arts center .
sesame-covered	sesame	JJ	sesame-covered	sesame	5	10	outside , old men sold sesame-covered pretzels called smeed , and young men squeezed fresh pomegranate and citrus juices .	outside , old men sold smeed , pretzels covered with sesame seeds , and young men squeezed fresh fruit juices .
explode	blow	VBP	explode	blow	3	2	car bombs still explode , armed gangs still lurk and the threat of islamic state extremists is ever present .	bombs still blow up in baghdad , the capital city of iraq .
proverb	saying	NN	proverb	saying	13	16	before she left to continue searching the stacks , nadawi recited an arabic proverb : movement , she said , is good .	before she left to continue searching the stacks of books , nadawi quoted an old arabic saying : movement , she said , is good .
compete	participate	VB	compete	participate	7	7	students from first grade through high school compete in up to five areas .	students from first grade through high school participate in reading , spelling and other areas .
upgrade	improve	VB	upgrade	improve	4	4	some would have to upgrade their housing and bathroom facilities , replacing old corrugated-metal siding with modern materials .	some will have to improve worker housing and bathrooms .
main	major	JJ	main	major	1	1	the main expenses would involve instituting and maintaining an auditing system that ensures that workers ' rights , including weekly access to wages , are honored .	one major expense would be developing and maintaining a system that ensures workers ' rights , including weekly access to wages .
always	often	RB	always	often	21	12	it can be a difficult task , especially when farms have labor camps scattered in remote locations and owners are n't always forthcoming about their operations .	one problem is that the labor camps where farm workers live are often scattered in remote locations .
approach	way	NN	approach	way	17	5	but such audits take longer and cost more , added expenses that conflict with wal-mart 's cost-crunching approach .	however , doing things that way takes longer and costs more money .
inspect	check	VB	inspect	check	8	8	it rarely costs more than $ 1,400 to inspect a farm carefully , miggins said .	it rarely costs more than $ 1,400 to check a farm carefully , miggins said .
consensus	agreement	NN	consensus	agreement	10	10	experts said american retailers should work together to reach a consensus on basic worker welfare standards .	experts said american retailers should work together to reach an agreement on basic worker welfare standards .
audit	inspection	NN	audit	inspection	11	11	they could even team up and share costs to bring down audit expenses , they said .	they could even team up and share costs to bring down inspection expenses , they said .
staff	man	NN	staff	man	2	17	stowell 's staff thinks that even documents pertaining to lincoln 's death and those written in the present will help people connect to who lincoln was in life .	stowell believes that even documents about lincoln 's death will give people a better understanding of the man who was assassinated 150 years ago this april .
man	staff	NN	man	staff	17	3	stowell believes that even documents about lincoln 's death will give people a better understanding of the man who was assassinated 150 years ago this april .	stowell and his staff think that even documents about lincoln 's death will help people understand him better .
hull	shell	NN	hull	shell	14	11	its kernels are more spherical than other corn kernels , and its pericarp the hull that surrounds the seed is a little thicker .	the seeds are covered in a thin layer , like a shell .
sound	noise	NN	sound	noise	10	10	finally , they investigated the source of popcorn 's popping sound .	finally , they investigated why popcorn makes its famous popping noise .
noise	sound	NN	noise	sound	10	10	finally , they investigated why popcorn makes its famous popping noise .	finally , they investigated why the popcorn makes the pop-pop-pop sound as it heats up .
rebound	bounce	NN	rebound	bounce	12	13	they identified three possibilities : the fracture of the hull , the rebound on the ground , and the release of pressurized water vapor .	they identified three possible reasons : the cracking of the hull , the bounce of the corn on the ground , or the release of pressurized water vapor .
fracture	crack	NN	fracture	crack	2	8	a second fracture was observed 100 milliseconds later 6 milliseconds after that the pop sound began .	but after the first fracture , a second crack was observed in the hull .
civil-rights	rights	NNS	civil-rights	rights	19	18	in the midst of it , rapper common summarizes how words , melody and a protest merged during the civil-rights movement .	in it , rapper common tells how words , music and a protest came together during the civil rights movement .
rights	civil-rights	NNS	rights	civil-rights	12	3	it is the most recent evidence that the soundtrack for the civil rights movement continues to be written .	songs for the civil-rights movement continue to be written .
stately	majestic	JJ	stately	majestic	2	2	after a stately version of '' we shall overcome , '' pops staples pauses to introduce his new song .	after a majestic version of '' we shall overcome , '' pops staples pauses to introduce his new song .
weariness	fatigue	NN	weariness	fatigue	0	1	weariness frays their voices , but they 're still on the freedom highway .	their fatigue changes their voices , but they 're still on the freedom highway .
teaching	school	NN	teaching	school	6	15	occasionally he will pick up substitute teaching jobs , which pay him about $ 125 a day .	now , winfield scrapes by earning money from working with kids at his former high school .
teaching	teacher	NN	teaching	teacher	6	21	occasionally he will pick up substitute teaching jobs , which pay him about $ 125 a day .	now , winfield scrapes by earning money from working with kids at his former high school and working as a substitute teacher .
sled	sledding	NN	sled	sledding	17	18	after a mostly snowless winter , the overland park , kansas , man enjoyed finally getting to sled with his children on the presidents day holiday .	after a mostly snowless winter , the overland park , kansas , man enjoyed finally getting to go sledding with his children .
sledding	sled	NN	sledding	sled	11	4	indeed , the odds of going to an emergency room for sledding injuries are five times higher in children who sled on the street instead of a park .	indeed , children who sled on the street are five times more likely to be hurt than children who sled in a park .
adult	grownup	JJ	adult	grownup	4	4	for example , two adult brothers slid down a hill holding signs .	for example , two grownup brothers slid down a hill holding signs .
municipality	city	NN	municipality	city	5	5	the question is whether a municipality could foresee a risk , he said .	the question is whether a city could foresee a risk , lawson said .
rough	hard	JJ	rough	hard	4	3	middle school was a rough couple of years for talmus ' daughter , lili smith .	she had a hard time in middle school .
head	leader	NN	head	leader	4	10	chicago the first female head of a major automobile company arrived in 2014 .	chicago in 2014 , mary barra became the first female leader of a major automotive company .
car	auto	NN	car	auto	4	2	there are three women car engineers preparing the groundwork for the next generation of young women interested in automotive science and technology .	three female auto engineers are making a big difference in the car world .
car	automobile	NN	car	automobile	4	9	there are three women car engineers preparing the groundwork for the next generation of young women interested in automotive science and technology .	they are role models for young women interested in automobile engineering .
engineering	engineer	NN	engineering	engineer	12	2	piechocki is responsible for integrating , testing and executing all of the engineering requirements for ford 's full-size suvs , ford expedition and lincoln navigator .	the first engineer is dawn piechocki .
initiative	project	NN	initiative	project	4	4	the nascar acceleration nation initiative focuses on the three d 's of speed downforce , drafting and drag and includes instructional materials for teachers .	the nascar acceleration nation project focuses on the laws of motion , or what it calls the three d 's of speed downforce , drafting and drag .
race	racing	NN	race	racing	20	3	for him , one of the biggest teaching challenges was keeping students ' attention , and he hopes that bringing race cars into science discussions will spark interest .	he hopes that racing will get kids interested in science .
schoolchildren	school	NN	schoolchildren	school	15	3	just until recently , the education system had banned islamic headscarves in schools and made schoolchildren begin the day reciting a pledge of allegiance to ataturk 's legacy .	children begin the school day reciting a pledge of allegiance to ataturk .
ruling	rule	NN	ruling	rule	1	18	the ruling islamic-rooted justice and development party insists it is simply heeding the demands of a conservative and pious majority .	president erdogan 's political group , the justice and development party , insists it is only following majority rule in a conservative country .
carry	make	VB	carry	make	14	11	yet these days , han is doubtful that any of his four children will carry on his handiwork .	han does not think that any of his four children will make kites .
competitive	ultra-competitive	JJ	competitive	ultra-competitive	6	4	youth hockey in minnesota is famously competitive , but now youth basketball may be catching up .	minnesota has long had ultra-competitive youth hockey .
ultra-competitive	competitive	JJ	ultra-competitive	competitive	4	4	minnesota has long had ultra-competitive youth hockey .	minnesota is famous for competitive youth hockey .
pro	professional	JJ	pro	professional	21	21	giovanna ingram is paying $ 75 an hour to have her son , vinnie , get extra training from a former pro basketball player .	giovanna ingram is paying $ 75 an hour to have her son , vinnie , get extra training from a former professional basketball player .
harmful	dangerous	JJ	harmful	dangerous	0	0	harmful fishing practices add to the threat .	dangerous fishing methods cause much of the threat to the high seas .
fish	fishing	NN	fish	fishing	2	4	most deep-sea fish in the high seas are caught by a method called bottom trawling , which scrapes heavy nets across the seafloor .	most of the deep-sea fishing in the high seas is done by bottom trawling , in which heavy nets are scraped across the seafloor .
catch	fish	NN	catch	fish	5	3	much of the trawl 's catch , or bycatch , is thrown back dead .	much of the fish and sealife caught up in the nets are thrown back dead .
management	control	NN	management	control	7	8	although not utterly lawless , high seas management is a jumble of institutions and regulations .	an uncoordinated jumble of institutions and regulations have control over different aspects of the high seas .
establish	create	VB	establish	create	17	7	in terms of overfishing the agreement would , among other things , make it much easier to establish marine protected areas -lrb- mpas -rrb- in international waters .	an agreement would make it easier to create marine protected areas .
plantation	farm	NN	plantation	farm	19	1	the maryland site was once the home of josiah henson , a slave on what was then a 3,700-acre plantation who fled to canada in 1830 .	the farm was the home of josiah henson , a slave who escaped and wrote the story of his life .
house	shelter	NN	house	shelter	1	13	the house was once part of a plantation and it was the home of josiah henson , a slave who escaped and wrote the story of his life .	henson and his family made it to canada , where he opened a shelter for former slaves .
dig	digging	NN	dig	digging	2	1	an archaeological dig at the site has unearthed 19th-century artifacts , as well , including a flatiron and milk bottle .	archaeologists digging at the site found items from the 19th century , including a flatiron and milk bottle .
loose	free	JJ	loose	free	21	23	when the group of slaves went through ohio , a free state , he refused to cut himself or anyone else loose and continued with riley 's assignment .	when the group of slaves went through ohio , which did not allow slavery , henson refused to set himself or anyone else free .
slave	slavery	NN	slave	slavery	1	5	fugitive slave laws were in force in the north that put escaped slaves at risk in free states , where they could be captured and returned as property .	northern states did not allow slavery .
refuge	shelter	NN	refuge	shelter	17	16	henson and his family made it to canada , where he established the dawn settlement , a refuge for former slaves .	henson and his family made it to canada and he established the dawn settlement , a shelter for former slaves .
corpse	body	NN	corpse	body	17	21	the next morning , galden descended from a helicopter and hiked a short distance to where a corpse lay half-submerged in the snow and ice .	the next morning , gladen descended the mountain in a helicopter , hiked a short distance , and came upon a body half-buried in the snow .
unaccounted	missing	JJ	unaccounted	missing	25	16	thirteen bodies were recovered and nine men were rescued , but three sherpas , including galden 's close friend , ash bahadur gurung , remained unaccounted for .	in all , 13 bodies were recovered , nine men were rescued and three sherpas remained missing .
trade	profession	NN	trade	profession	1	1	the trade is dominated by the ethnic sherpa people who populate the himalayan highlands .	the profession is dominated by the ethnic sherpa people who live in the himalayan highlands , at the bottom of mount everest .
offseason	off-season	NN	offseason	off-season	2	7	in the offseason , many supplement their income by guiding tours of lower peaks and studying english the better to interact with wealthy western clients .	many sherpas supplement their income in the off-season by guiding tours of the lower peaks and studying english .
off-season	offseason	NN	off-season	offseason	7	7	many sherpas supplement their income in the off-season by guiding tours of the lower peaks and studying english .	many sherpas earn extra income in the offseason by guiding tours of the lower peaks and studying english .
offer	give	VBP	offer	give	3	4	high-end expeditions now offer sushi , espresso , fully stocked bars and makeshift internet cafes as far up as 21,000 feet all requiring more equipment and sherpas .	some of the tours give the climbers sushi , european coffee and more .
espresso	coffee	NN	espresso	coffee	6	10	high-end expeditions now offer sushi , espresso , fully stocked bars and makeshift internet cafes as far up as 21,000 feet all requiring more equipment and sherpas .	some of the tours give the climbers sushi , european coffee and more .
snow	ice	NN	snow	ice	5	2	in the split-second before the snow hurtled into him , he turned to one side , trying to protect his spine from impact .	suddenly the ice crashed down .
heal	recover	VB	heal	recover	7	4	it took months for the wounds to heal .	it took months to recover .
recover	heal	VB	recover	heal	4	4	it took months to recover .	it took months to heal .
avocado-producing	avocado	JJ	avocado-producing	avocado	4	4	florida is the second-largest avocado-producing state , behind california .	florida is the second-largest avocado state in the nation .
country	land	NN	country	land	2	1	and the country is on track to produce 42,500 tons this year , said iragorri , the agriculture minister .	colombian land dedicated to avocado production more than doubled from 2008 to 2014 .
favor	support	VBP	favor	support	2	2	most americans favor the defense department 's decision to lift a ban on women in combat jobs and do not believe it will hurt military effectiveness , a new poll shows .	most americans support the decision and do n't believe it will hurt the military 's effectiveness , a new poll shows .
chairman	president	NN	chairman	president	1	1	the chairman of the chinese communist party , xi jinping , has spoken repeatedly about working toward a '' chinese dream '' and a great rejuvenation of the country .	chinese president xi jinping has spoken repeatedly about working toward a '' chinese dream '' and a great restoration of the country .
rejuvenation	renewal	NN	rejuvenation	renewal	25	17	the chairman of the chinese communist party , xi jinping , has spoken repeatedly about working toward a '' chinese dream '' and a great rejuvenation of the country .	chinese president xi jinping has spoken about working toward a '' chinese dream '' and a great renewal of the country .
people	employees	NNS	people	employee	25	14	as the economy begins to perk up and businesses start to hire , a lack of basic knowledge about mathematics could present a problem to people looking for work .	as the economy begins to perk up , businesses are looking to hire new employees .
teach	learn	VB	teach	learn	5	2	the common core standards will teach students what they need to know for success in college and jobs , said sam houston , president and ceo of the north carolina science , math and technology education center .	students will learn what they need to know to do well in college and jobs , said sam houston , president of the north carolina science , math and technology education center .
indefinitely	forever	RB	indefinitely	forever	26	26	but with hay prices as much as five times higher than usual because of last year 's drought , she could n't afford to do so indefinitely , she said .	but with hay prices as much as five times higher than usual because of last year 's drought , she could not afford to do so forever , she said .
acknowledge	admit	VB	acknowledge	admit	32	13	the governor , who throughout his career has joked about his weight on television , in social media and before countless audiences , said it was his plan all along never to acknowledge publicly that he had undergone gastric band surgery , more commonly known as lap band surgery .	however , the governor said it was his plan all along never to admit publicly that he had undergone surgery .
adequately	properly	RB	adequately	properly	28	17	with the increased caseload , advocates worry the government is not paying enough attention to the sponsors , to ensure that the family members or family friends can adequately take care of these children and that the environment is suitable .	the government must ensure that the family members or family friends can take care of these children properly and that the home is suitable .
withstand	resist	VB	withstand	resist	35	13	erwin runs an architecture company in springfield , missouri , that designs and builds tornado safe rooms in schools - structures with walls and ceilings so strong , and footings so deep , they should withstand winds stronger than those that destroyed schools in oklahoma city this week .	the safe rooms are structures with walls and ceilings so strong they should resist winds stronger than those that destroyed schools in oklahoma city this week .
uncommon	rare	JJ	uncommon	rare	32	7	from near extinction to stunning recovery , its comeback is a rare win for threatened and endangered species , a decades-long odyssey of biological risk and scientific discovery made possible by the uncommon commitment of a fisheries biologist laboring in one of the most remote corners of the west .	it was only made possible by the rare commitment of a fisheries biologist working in one of the most remote corners of the west .
blonde	blond	JJ	blonde	blond	7	8	state-run television showed fogle , wearing a blonde wig askew under a ballcap , and what were reportedly the strange tools of his spy tradecraft , including wads of cash , several pairs of dark sunglasses , a compass and moscow map , a knife , more wigs , pepper spray and a letter laying out how the spy recruitment would go .	state-run television showed fogle , wearing a crooked blond wig under a ballcap , and what were reportedly the strange tools of his spy trade .
close	shut	VB	close	shut	28	3	to deal with a $ 359,000 cut , the gulf islands national seashore in florida and mississippi will shutter three visitor centers a few days per week and close some restrooms .	it plans to shut three visitor centers a few days each week .
quickly	fast	RB	quickly	fast	26	8	baltimore some of the more notable signs of springtime appear to be fading away , as a new study finds frogs , toads and salamanders disappearing quickly across the united states .	baltimore frogs and toads and salamanders are disappearing fast in the united states , a study says .
disappear	vanish	VB	disappear	vanish	15	11	if the trend continues , the researchers say , some of the rarer amphibians could disappear in as few as six years from roughly half the sites where they 're now found , while the more common species could see similar declines in 26 years .	if this keeps up , some of the rarer amphibians could vanish from half their homes in six years .
order	way	NN	order	way	9	12	a centuries-old farming technique called dry farming once the order of the day in california 's central valley is once again drawing the interest of some of the region 's farmers .	farmers in california 's central valley are rediscovering dry farming , a way of growing crops that was used for centuries .
hurricane	storm	NN	hurricane	storm	10	27	and yet studies have found even with the start of hurricane season looming june 1 that as many as two in three florida residents say they have no plan for what they will do if a tropical system threatens .	and yet studies have found that as many as two in three florida residents say they have no plan for what they would do if a tropical storm threatens .
wide	great	JJ	wide	great	20	30	they are sold in asia , particularly in vietnam , where ground-up horns are touted as a cure for a wide range of illnesses , including cancer .	they are sold in parts of asia where ground-up horns are believed to be a cure for a lot of illnesses , including cancer , leaving these impressive animals in great danger .
behavioral-health	health	NN	behavioral-health	health	14	9	at the yakama nation , vanessa smartlowit , administrative assistant in the tribe 's behavioral-health department , said the tribe is seeking to bolster its youth with everything from motivational speakers to dealing with bullying in schools .	vanessa smartlowit is in the yakama nation 's behavioral health department .
aunt	great-aunt	NN	aunt	great-aunt	9	6	in fact , ascher , who remembers visiting her aunt twice a year '' it was a command performance '' was dismissive of the renoir , as well .	ascher remembers having to visit her great-aunt twice a year .
subsequently	later	RB	subsequently	later	18	18	the washington post has reported that several acquaintances of the fuquas , along with a family member who subsequently retracted his statement , say the painting was in fuqua 's mother 's house for many years .	the washington post has reported that several acquaintances of the fuquas , along with a family member who later retracted his statement , say the painting was in fuqua 's mother 's house for many years .
trip	tour	NN	trip	tour	13	7	beyonce and jay-z , while celebrating their fifth wedding anniversary on the three-day trip , reportedly stuck to their itinerary , visiting a school , a children 's theater group and a jazz club while meeting musicians .	beyonce and jay-z reportedly stuck to the tour , even as they celebrated their five-year anniversary .
tell	say	VBP	tell	say	3	1	the way they tell it , they hooked a giant mako and jason johnston , from mesquite , texas , got in the pole harness to reel it in .	they say they hooked a giant mako shark and jason johnston , from mesquite , texas , got in the pole harness to reel it in .
base	background	NN	base	background	36	4	his high-level security clearance made him easily employable in the private sector , and in 2009 , he said , he left the cia to work as a contractor at an nsa facility on a military base in japan .	he passed a government background check which made it easy for him to get a job in the private sector .
stymie	thwart	VB	stymie	thwart	31	11	chicago authorities are grappling with high-profile shootings and killings among youths , and grass-roots activists , ministers and educators are turning to the principles of restorative justice in an attempt to stymie the unrest .	activists , ministers and educators are turning to restorative justice to thwart the unrest .
square	place	NN	square	place	3	17	istanbul 's taksim square has become the center of recent anti-government protests , which started as a demonstration against a building project in the square 's gezi park but have since grown into widespread condemnation of the government 's conservative policies .	the protests started as a demonstration against demolishing a park and building a shopping center in its place .
positive	favorable	JJ	positive	favorable	4	14	myriad officials accentuated the positive in the court 's decision , stressing how the court agreed that lab-synthesized genes , dubbed cdna , still may be patented , as may the scientific methods used in isolating genes .	myriad officials focused on the parts of the court 's decision that it found favorable .
damage	injure	VB	damage	injure	31	15	los angeles heading the ball is a key soccer skill , but a new study finds that players who headed the ball frequently were more likely to suffer brain injury and damage their memory than players who were a little less headstrong , so to speak .	players who used their heads to hit the ball a lot were more likely to injure their brains and have memory problems than players who did it less , the study showed .
important	serious	JJ	important	serious	28	21	while sports like football and other forms of traumatic brain injury , or tbi , soccer is an intense physical sport for which the head can be as important as the foot .	sports like american football and ice hockey get most of the attention when it comes to concussions and other forms of serious brain injury .
spotlight	attention	NN	spotlight	attention	5	5	in some ways , the spotlight that fell on the cocoa business was akin to the one on the apparel industry today after a rash of deadly factory accidents in bangladesh .	in some ways , the attention that fell on the cocoa business was similar to the one on the clothing industry today after a rash of deadly factory accidents in bangladesh .
attention	spotlight	NN	attention	spotlight	5	5	in some ways , the attention that fell on the cocoa business was similar to the one on the clothing industry today after a rash of deadly factory accidents in bangladesh .	in some ways , the spotlight that fell on the cocoa business was similar to the one on the clothing industry today .
faceoff	face-off	NN	faceoff	face-off	22	20	chicago when the chicago blackhawks take to the ice , michelle secor is dressed in her team paraphernalia and closely watching every faceoff , power play and goal , she said .	chicago when the chicago blackhawks take the ice , michelle secor is dressed in her team clothing , watching every face-off , power play and goal .
become	turned	VBN	become	turn	13	6	snowden 's attempt to avoid facing criminal charges in the united states has become an international game of hide-and-seek , with the obama administration getting little help from the governments of hong kong and russia .	his attempt to avoid arrest has turned into a serious game of hide-and-seek .
car	vehicle	NN	car	vehicle	30	1	violence broke out in more than 10 cities late thursday and early friday , and an 18-year-old man was killed and three people injured when they were hit by a car trying to drive around a protester-erected barricade in ribeirao preto , 185 miles north of sao paolo .	the vehicle was trying to drive around a barricade erected by protesters in ribeirao preto , 185 miles north of sao paolo .
passionate	heated	JJ	passionate	heated	7	7	but the issue of gay marriage causes passionate arguments on both sides , as evidenced by the fact that more than two-thirds of the states do not allow gay marriage .	but the issue of gay marriage causes heated arguments , with some saying that marriage should be reserved for one man and one woman .
extend	run	VB	extend	run	33	9	now , the mayo clinic has received federal approval for a first-of-its kind clinical study to see if stem cells from the babies ' own umbilical cords can strengthen their underdeveloped hearts and extend their lives .	now , the mayo clinic has been approved to run a study to see if stem cells from the babies ' own umbilical cords can strengthen their hearts .
step	passage	NN	step	passage	21	4	though the outcome of the vote was long known , senate leaders created fresh drama by having members take the unusual step of voting in their seats , a practice reserved for only the most momentous occasions .	while the bill 's passage was no surprise , senate leaders created some drama by having members vote from their seats , a practice reserved for only the most history-making occasions .
endorsement	support	NN	endorsement	support	6	5	the senate vote was a robust endorsement to a thousand-page bill painstakingly crafted by a '' gang of eight '' senators from both parties and amended this week to bring in some skeptics .	the senate vote showed strong support to the thousand-page bill painstakingly crafted by eight senators from both parties and amended this week to bring in some skeptics .
breakup	separation	NN	breakup	separation	16	3	for eights months , the statue stood alone in new york harbor , but the painful breakup was pushed aside thursday as visitors returned to the statue of liberty for the first time since the superstorm shut her down on oct .	but the painful separation was pushed aside on thursday as visitors returned to the statue of liberty for the first time since the superstorm shut her down .
carrier	airline	NN	carrier	airline	17	7	asiana airlines is known in los angeles ' sizable korean community as the other major south korean carrier korean air is the largest and consistently ranks as one of the top airlines in the world in terms of service and safety .	asiana airlines is south korea 's second-largest airline .
temporary	interim	JJ	temporary	interim	3	3	the military and temporary president adly mahmoud mansor had hoped that a swift appointment of a prime minister would send a message of stability and give confidence to both egyptians and the world .	the military and interim president mansor wanted a prime minister to be named quickly .
school	teaching	NN	school	teaching	8	23	in his first year at north charleston elementary school last year , helton often worked 12-hour days and spent several more hours in the evening to prepare for the next day .	helton often worked 12-hour days and spent several more hours in the evening to prepare for the next day in his first year teaching last year .
state	report	NN	state	report	19	5	that evaluation was similar to one the company prepared on maurice clarett , the trouble-prone running back from ohio state selected by denver in the third round of the 2005 draft .	the company prepared a similar report on maurice clarett .
get	receive	VB	get	receive	20	11	just like last year , president barack obama somehow was snubbed -lrb- '' usually at a state dinner , i get invited , '' he told the kids -rrb- , but made a surprise appearance anyway .	just like last year , president barack obama somehow did not receive an invitation to the event , but made a surprise appearance anyway .
supplant	replace	VB	supplant	replace	37	27	instead , activists and columnists kept up a cold shower of criticism , even after king hinted , before stepping down at the end of june , that novelist jane austen was strongly in the running to supplant charles darwin on the 10-pound bill .	the complaints continued even after king hinted , before stepping down at the end of june , that novelist jane austen was strongly in the running to replace charles darwin on the 10-pound bill .
part	component	NN	part	component	19	9	it 's one thing to print a toy , and it 's another thing altogether to manufacture a metal part that will hold up under thousands of degrees of temperature , constant stress and years of operation .	it 's another thing altogether to manufacture a metal component that will hold up under thousands of degrees of temperature , constant stress and years of operation .
significantly	far	RB	significantly	far	21	2	once common from new england to alabama , the woodrat has disappeared from massachusetts , connecticut and new york , has significantly declined in pennsylvania , and is nearly gone from ohio and indiana .	there are far fewer of them in pennsylvania these days , and they are nearly gone from ohio and indiana .
supplement	add	VB	supplement	add	52	26	in 2007 , olin rhodes , a forestry and natural resources professor at purdue university , collected 54 woodrats from genetically diverse colonies in kentucky and tennessee and successfully released them in indiana , to re-establish populations at four sites that had historically been home to woodrats , as well as to supplement reduced populations at two other sites .	he then successfully released them in indiana , to re-establish populations at four sites that had historically been home to woodrats , as well as to add to reduced populations at two other sites .
conduct	act	VB	conduct	act	25	14	in a rare public disclosure , holder also shared how , when he was a teen , his father had instructed him on how to conduct himself if he were ever stopped by the police and how holder found himself having the same talk with his own 15-year-old son after martin 's death .	when he was a teen , holder 's father told him on how to act if he were ever stopped by the police .
withstand	stand	VB	withstand	stand	12	9	the seats on the asiana aircraft were '' 16g '' able to withstand 16 times the force of gravity , in accordance with a federal aviation administration regulation .	the seats on the asiana aircraft were able to stand up to 16 times the force of gravity , meeting a federal aviation administration rule .
regulation	rule	NN	regulation	rule	27	24	the seats on the asiana aircraft were '' 16g '' able to withstand 16 times the force of gravity , in accordance with a federal aviation administration regulation .	the seats on the asiana aircraft were able to stand up to 16 times the force of gravity , meeting a federal aviation administration rule .
sustainable	feasible	JJ	sustainable	feasible	15	15	the negative perception surrounding the horse-cart drivers was one of the problems in finding a sustainable solution , said ricardo mora , the latin american program manager for the world society for the protection of animals , which worked with the city on the project .	that harsh perception surrounding the horse-cart drivers was one of the problems in finding a feasible solution , said ricardo mora , the latin american program manager for the world society for the protection of animals , which worked with the city on the project .
perception	image	NN	perception	image	2	2	the negative perception surrounding the horse-cart drivers was one of the problems in finding a sustainable solution , said ricardo mora , the latin american program manager for the world society for the protection of animals , which worked with the city on the project .	a negative image of the horse-cart drivers was one of the problems in finding a solution , said ricardo mora .
league	association	NN	league	association	32	32	new jersey 's local public contract law does not permit preferences when bidding out contracts and other government services , said bill dressel , the executive director of the new jersey state league of municipalities .	new jersey 's law does not allow favoring one company over another when the towns are seeking goods and services , said bill dressel , the executive director of the new jersey association of cities .
review	study	NN	review	study	3	21	an independent scientific review of the agency 's horse roundups , released in may , recommended that the government invest in widespread fertility control of the mustangs and let nature cull any excess herds instead of spending millions to house them in overflowing holding pens .	it should also let nature thin the herds , not spend millions to house horses in overflowing holding pens , the study said .
communist-run	communist	JJ	communist-run	communist	10	7	decades after the vietnam war , and years after the communist-run country re-engaged with the world , vietnam will pass another symbolic milestone as a contributor to the global economy when its first mcdonald 's opens next year in ho chi minh city .	decades after the vietnam war , the communist country will pass another milestone as a member of the global economy when its first mcdonald 's opens next year in ho chi minh city .
unrest	trouble	NN	unrest	trouble	30	14	varginha , a slum so poor and violent it is sometimes called the gaza strip , has benefited from small improvements from the government in an effort to staunch social unrest .	varginha is a slum so poor and violent it is sometimes compared with a trouble spot in the middle east .
trip	journey	NN	trip	journey	21	6	venturing into the varginha favela was probably the trickiest event in the pope 's week in brazil , his first overseas trip since his election in march and one that has brought him to his native continent .	the trip was his first overseas journey since his election in march , and one that has brought him to his native continent .
essentially	practically	RB	essentially	practically	16	16	the recently paved streets inside the favela are narrow ; large parts of the slum are essentially in ruins , and the crowds , though perhaps admiring of the pope , are unpredictable .	the recently paved streets inside the slum are narrow ; large parts of the slum are practically in ruins .
contents	materials	NNS	contents	material	7	8	the researchers and their students catch the contents in a bucket think lots of chewed up little fish and worms and return the sharks to the water .	the researchers and their students then catch the materials in the sharks ' stomachs in a bucket .
immerse	plunge	VBP	immerse	plunge	2	6	women who immerse themselves in the chilly waters of the lakes do so fully clothed , and modesty dictates that they do it out of the sight of men , so underway now is a feature that probably ca n't be found in any other national park in the world : a walled area near the shrine so that women may take their dips privately .	women must wear clothes when they plunge into the chilly lake water .
university	scholar	NN	university	scholar	9	5	leta hong fincher , a doctoral candidate at tsinghua university who has studied the issue , said the high marriage rate for chinese women results in large part from the government 's '' remarkably effective propaganda campaign '' stigmatizing shengnu .	leta hong fincher is a scholar who has studied the issue .
series	number	NN	series	number	7	10	they 're now embarking on a new series of tests in california 's central valley , aimed at working out the answers to a multitude of technical questions that must be resolved to make the project work .	the goal is to work out the answers to a number of technical questions that must be resolved to make the project work .
configure	set	VB	configure	set	13	13	she explained that the loon team needs more data to decide how to configure the solar array and batteries so they can keep a balloon 's radio equipment and computers running for weeks at a time , even at night , at frigid altitudes of 12 miles or more above the earth .	she explained that the loon team needs more data to decide how to set up the solar array and batteries .
team	equipment	NN	team	equipment	5	2	she explained that the loon team needs more data to decide how to configure the solar array and batteries so they can keep a balloon 's radio equipment and computers running for weeks at a time , even at night , at frigid altitudes of 12 miles or more above the earth .	the power equipment has to keep the balloon 's radio and computers running for weeks at a time , even at night .
balloon	ballon	NN	balloon	ballon	8	3	soon after friday 's launch , as the balloon dwindled ever smaller in the northeastern sky , project launch commander bill rogers and other members of his crew loaded their trucks and prepared to track its radio signal .	soon after the ballon was aloft , project launch commander bill rogers and other members of his crew loaded their trucks and prepared to track its radio signal .
influence	effect	NN	influence	effect	24	15	using examples as disparate as road rage , ancient wars and major league baseball , scientists have taken early steps to quantify the potential influence of climate warming on human conflict .	now scientists are taking some small steps to see if they can show how much effect climate warming might have on human conflict .
interpersonal	personal	JJ	interpersonal	personal	4	4	likewise , episodes of interpersonal violence murder , assault , rape , domestic abuse could increase by as much as 16 percent , the researchers report in a study published thursday by the journal science .	likewise , episodes of personal violence murder , assault , rape , domestic abuse could increase by as much as 16 percent .
editor	editor-in-chief	NN	editor	editor-in-chief	5	4	an accompanying editorial by science editor in chief marcia mcnutt , a geophysicist , did not address the study specifically , but called on scientists from different fields to help study the cumulative effects of climate change .	an editorial by science editor-in-chief marcia mcnutt ran in the same issue of the journal .
communication	message	NN	communication	message	29	13	an official who had been briefed on the matter in sanaa , the yemeni capital , said the embassy closings and travel advisory were the result of an intercepted communication between nasir al-wuhayshi , the head of the yemen-based al-qaida in the arabian peninsula , and al-qaida leader ayman al zawahiri in which zawahiri gave '' clear orders '' to al-wuhaysi , who was recently named al qaida 's general manager , to carry out an attack .	the embassies were closed and the travel warning was given because of a message between two leaders of the terror group al-qaida , said an official who had been informed on the matter in yemen .
reform	change	VB	reform	change	24	24	the distinction between the two programs has become an important part of the nsa debate as more and more lawmakers have proposed legislation to reform the agency 's practices in collecting domestic phone metadata .	the distinction between the two programs has become an important part of the nsa debate as more and more lawmakers have proposed laws to change the way the agency collects domestic phone information .
infinite	endless	JJ	infinite	endless	18	17	in los angeles , nonprofits and social service agencies report that the need for diapers is '' practically infinite '' and that diapers '' fly '' out of warehouses as soon as they 're delivered .	in los angeles , nonprofits and social service agencies report that the need for diapers is practically endless .
health	health-care	NN	health	health-care	6	12	parents in need can get subsidized health care through medicaid , subsidized rent through a public housing agency and subsidized food through the special supplemental nutrition program for women , infants and children .	parents in need can get subsidized health care or financial support paying health-care costs through a government program called medicaid .
care	health-care	NN	care	health-care	7	12	parents in need can get subsidized health care through medicaid , subsidized rent through a public housing agency and subsidized food through the special supplemental nutrition program for women , infants and children .	parents in need can get subsidized health care or financial support paying health-care costs through a government program called medicaid .
devote	spend	VB	devote	spend	15	15	a single mother earning $ 15,080 a year in a minimum-wage job would need to devote more than 6 percent of her pay to diapers , according to the pediatrics study .	a single mother earning $ 15,080 a year in a minimum-wage job would have to spend a little over $ 900 a year on diapers , according to the pediatrics study .
practice	act	NN	practice	act	17	5	goldblum , a former social worker , said that she had often seen families resort to the practice : removing a dirty diaper , tossing out the solid waste and then returning the diaper to their baby 's bottom .	stretching a diaper is the act of removing a dirty diaper , tossing out the solid waste and then returning the diaper to the baby 's bottom .
tourism	tourist	NN	tourism	tourist	30	11	there are ambitious plans to get the word out about the hill , including dissertations from graduate students working on the project , permanent and traveling museum exhibits , updated tourism initiatives and even a screenplay that 's being financed by a local business owner .	these include work by graduate students , museum exhibits , updated tourist attractions , and even a screenplay that 's being financed by a local business owner .
end	goal	NN	end	goal	16	1	now , text kills is on track to visit more than 30 high schools before the end of the year , hoping to have an effect on the 25 percent of teens who admit to sending or receiving at least one text while driving .	the goal is to reach the 25 percent of teens who admit to sending or receiving at least one text while driving .
controlled	remote-controlled	JJ	controlled	remote-controlled	9	4	another simulator has drivers attempt to keep a remotely controlled car on a track while blindfolded for five seconds -- about the same amount of time it typically takes to send a text .	another simulator uses a remote-controlled toy car .
old-growth	old	JJ	old-growth	old	26	6	but sillett and other researchers working on an ambitious , four-year study found that growth rates of coastal redwoods and giant sequoia trees in california 's old-growth forests increased during the 20th century , even as other parts of the earth 's environment from polar bears to coral reefs suffered from climate change .	they looked at two types of old trees in california : coast redwoods and giant sequoias .
cause	lead	VBP	cause	lead	25	18	some scientists working on the project are concerned that although the news is good now , conditions could worsen for the trees if rising temperatures cause precipitation in california to decrease significantly over the coming decades .	but some scientists working on the project worry that conditions could worsen for the trees if rising temperatures lead to less rain and snow in california .
element	feature	NN	element	feature	31	8	yoga and meditation sessions have been a mainstay in the women 's jail for six years , since a group of volunteers from a local nonprofit that encourages yoga as an element of rehabilitation started showing up , mats in tow , and leading classes for all female inmates , said alisa kannett , an administrator for the nonprofit group yoga for recovery .	yoga and meditation sessions have been a regular feature at the women 's jail for six years .
often	typically	RB	often	typically	30	0	at a recent session at the jail , cole told participants they did n't need to close their eyes if it made them uncomfortable to do so during savasana , often the final pose in a yoga practice during which participants lie completely relaxed on their backs .	typically , eyes are closed as part of the savasana pose , during which participants lie completely relaxed on their backs .
charge	price	NN	charge	price	27	2	it climbs to well above $ 100,000 if a customer springs for a larger battery that extends the vehicle 's range to over 200 miles on one charge , which is more than double that of other electric cars .	but the price jumps to well above $ 100,000 if a customer springs for a larger battery .
plant	seed	NN	plant	seed	8	6	genetically modified organisms , or gmos , are plant or animal products that have been re-engineered in a lab with the dna of bacteria , viruses or other plants and animals to increase crop yield or make them heartier , more tolerant of herbicides , and resistant to insects , drought and other environmental factors .	the purpose is to make a seed produce more crops or to make the crops heartier .
yield	produce	VB	yield	produce	12	6	the purpose is to increase the amount of crops a seed can yield , or to make the crops more tolerant of herbicides and resistant to insects , drought and other environmental factors .	the purpose is to make seeds produce more or stronger crops .
issue	question	NN	issue	question	20	10	in a paper last month in the journal nature , an international team of scientists sought to sort out this issue for a particular group of meteorites known as shergottites .	recently , a team of scientists tried to answer this question for one group of meteorites .
collaborate	work	VB	collaborate	work	3	3	they plan to collaborate on efforts to build lower-cost smartphones , make apps that use less data and create financial incentives for companies to provide telecommunication service in poor areas .	they plan to work together to build lower-cost smartphones , make apps that are faster and cheaper to use , and create financial incentives for companies to provide telecommunication service in poor areas .
commemorate	remember	VB	commemorate	remember	17	7	washington tens of thousands of people from across the nation gathered at the national mall saturday to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the march on washington and to rally for what they believe is the unfinished business of the civil rights battle .	yet they were not just there to remember the past .
house	home	NN	house	home	47	26	in addition , she eliminated six positions , including three layoffs , and reduced transportation for students , which means parents will have to drive their children up to six miles to a bus stop rather than have their children picked up and dropped off at their house .	parents now will have to drive their children up to six miles to a bus stop rather than have them picked up and dropped off at home .
perimeter	edge	NN	perimeter	edge	15	7	containment of the rim fire surged as the dirt lines dug by firefighters around the perimeter and constant air drops of water and retardant finally started to pay off .	dirt lines dug by firefighters around the edge and constant air drops of water and material to put out flames finally started to pay off .
candidly	openly	RB	candidly	openly	22	7	as president , obama has been criticized for dodging direct conversations about race in america , although he has recently spoken more candidly about the discrimination he sees in the criminal justice system , as well as disparities in education and economics .	however , he has recently spoken more openly about the discrimination he sees in the criminal justice system , as well as unfairness in education and economics .
comfortable	enjoyable	JJ	comfortable	enjoyable	26	14	with theme park lines only getting longer , parks like disney world in florida are investing big money to make wait time less boring , more comfortable and , in the process , seemingly shorter .	that 's why parks like disney world in florida are making wait lines more enjoyable .
petty	minor	JJ	petty	minor	20	12	the strategy calls for warning those on the heat list individually that further criminal activity , even for the most petty offenses , will result in the full force of the law being brought down on them .	people on the list are warned that further criminal activity , however minor , will result in severe punishment .
decade-long	long	JJ	decade-long	long	11	2	los angeles the los angeles city council on wednesday lifted a decade-long ban on public murals , marking a decisive victory for artists who argued the law made no sense in a city with such a rich tradition of street art .	they had long argued that the law made no sense in a city with such a rich tradition of street art .
proliferation	spread	NN	proliferation	spread	32	32	new rules will seek a balance between clashing interests : reviving the city 's muralist tradition ; protecting neighborhoods from unwanted intrusions of large , sometimes controversial artworks ; and controlling a proliferation of advertising in the guise of art .	new rules will seek a balance between clashing interests : reviving the city 's muralist tradition ; protecting neighborhoods from unwanted intrusions of large , sometimes controversial artworks ; and controlling the spread of advertising disguised as art .
famous	world-famous	JJ	famous	world-famous	4	2	muralist kent twitchell , famous for his mural of actor steve mcqueen painted on a two-story house , said he was disappointed that murals would n't be allowed on single-family homes .	twitchell is world-famous for his mural of actor steve mcqueen , which he painted on the side of a two-story home .
upheaval	unrest	NN	upheaval	unrest	30	9	murals exploded in los angeles in the 1970s as artists took to walls to express concerns about political and social issues , including nuclear energy , student uprisings , political upheaval in mexico and chile and the civil rights struggle at home .	topics included nuclear energy , student uprisings , political unrest in mexico and chile and the civil rights struggle at home .
sum	money	NN	sum	money	7	18	one of the more surprising findings of sum 's research is that teens whose parents were wealthy were more likely to have a job than those whose parents had less income .	teens whose parents were wealthy were more likely to have a job than those whose parents made less money .
town	village	NN	town	village	18	7	dillingham , alaska president barack obama 's top environmental official was visibly moved as people in this fishing town told her the giant pebble mine would kill wild salmon and destroy their culture .	dillingham , alaska residents of this fishing village in southwestern alaska spoke with president barack obama 's top environmental official .
massive	wide	JJ	massive	wide	7	7	the area of the mine is a massive green expanse bursting with lakes and streams , a sweeping land of moose , caribou and grizzly bears surrounded by mountains .	the area of the mine is a wide green stretch bursting with lakes and streams .
buy	pay	VBP	buy	pay	2	1	the companies buy advertising on youth-oriented networks such as mtv , fund development programs for teenage athletes , and sponsor concerts , sporting and gaming events that attract adolescents .	they pay for development programs for teenage athletes .
remain	continue	VBP	remain	continue	15	5	as football season begins , safety questions that have hung over the sport for years remain unresolved , leaving scientists , marketers and lawyers to argue over the best way to protect players from head injuries .	scientists , companies and lawyers continue to argue over the best way to protect players from head injuries .
terrorism	terror	NN	terrorism	terror	10	16	miami the drone , a powerful but controversial weapon against terrorism , is about to take on a new and seemingly inexhaustible enemy : the black salt marsh mosquito .	miami the remote-controlled aircraft known as a drone has been a powerful but controversial weapon against terror .
difficult-to-access	difficult	JJ	difficult-to-access	difficult	11	12	it will be rigged with a thermal camera designed to survey difficult-to-access mangrove jungles that are breeding grounds for the marsh mosquito , the most prolific biter in the island chain .	the goal is to survey the area 's mangrove swamps that are difficult to get to .
grow	thrive	VBP	grow	thrive	14	1	if the bird-size eye in the sky can accurately detect shallow pools where mosquitoes grow from tiny larval worms to buzzing blood-suckers in just days , it could save mosquito-fighters time , effort and money , said michael doyle , the district 's executive director .	mosquitoes thrive in shallow pools of water .
safe-deposit	safe	JJ	safe-deposit	safe	29	12	but it 's unclear whether the government can chip away at indians ' love of gold , which economists consider a '' nonproductive asset '' that sits idle in safe-deposit boxes rather than fueling growth .	economists consider gold a '' nonproductive asset '' that sits idle in safe deposit boxes rather than fueling growth .
value	worth	NN	value	worth	39	23	when tata motors wanted to draw attention to its nano car model in 2011 , it coated one of the vehicles with 176 pounds of gold and gems , gaining far more in publicity than the $ 3 million value of the shiny stunt .	when tata motors wanted to draw attention to its nano car model , it coated one of the vehicles with $ 3 million worth of gold and gems .
space	spacecraft	NN	space	spacecraft	50	8	lead author don gurnett , an iowa state plasma physicist and a voyager project scientist , said the data showed conclusively that voyager 1 had exited the heliopause the bubble of hot , energetic particles that surrounds our sun and planets and entered into a region of cold , dark space called the interstellar medium .	lead author don gurnett said information from the spacecraft showed that voyager 1 had exited the heliopause .
lone	single	JJ	lone	single	18	15	but by late monday night , they said they were convinced the shooting was the work of a lone gunman , and the lockdown around the area was eased .	but by late monday night , they said they were convinced there was just a single gunman , and police began to ease the lockdown around the area .
medication	medicine	NN	medication	medicine	18	22	he 's sober now and credits the club 's urban indian legal clinic with helping him obtain the medication he needed for his depression and for helping him find housing .	he 's sober now and credits the club 's urban indian legal clinic with helping him find a home and obtain the medicine he needed for his depression .
big	huge	JJ	big	huge	21	9	hempstead said boeing will need a separate plant to build the composite 777x wings , which he says will be so big they 'll need to be made near the jet 's final assembly line .	a separate plant would be needed to build the huge wings .
stockpile	store	VB	stockpile	store	5	5	this reduced the need to stockpile supplies at the factory and was the start of the '' kanban '' or '' just in time '' delivery concept , which has become the standard production method in the global auto industry .	this reduced the need to store supplies at the factory .
compendium	collection	NN	compendium	collection	22	22	but when the museum took a fresh look at the work in 2011 , its experts had the advantage of a new compendium of all van gogh 's letters , and they were able to identify for the first time the exact location '' sunset '' depicts : montmajor hill , near arles .	but when the museum took a fresh look at the work in 2011 , its experts had the advantage of a new collection of all van gogh 's letters , and they were able to identify for the first time the exact location '' sunset '' depicts : montmajor hill , near arles .
say	report	VB	say	report	17	15	for example , a student who sees someone bullying another could walk up to the aggressor and say , '' stop , '' or use a hand signal and then tell a teacher .	for instance , a student could tell or signal an aggressor to stop and then report it to a teacher .
multitiered	multi-tiered	JJ	multitiered	multi-tiered	20	17	soon after the forum , administrators from all eight schools in bloomingdale 's community consolidated school district 93 adopted a multitiered plan that now includes an expect respect club at some schools , where kids wear brightly colored t-shirts emblazoned with the logo .	after the meeting , all eight schools in bloomingdale 's community consolidated school district 93 adopted a multi-tiered plan that includes expect respect clubs , anti-bullying tokens and the katy perry video , said julie augustyn .
forum	instance	NN	forum	instance	3	10	soon after the forum , administrators from all eight schools in bloomingdale 's community consolidated school district 93 adopted a multitiered plan that now includes an expect respect club at some schools , where kids wear brightly colored t-shirts emblazoned with the logo .	all eight schools in bloomingdale 's school district , for instance , have a plan that includes expect respect clubs , anti-bullying tokens and the katy perry video , said julie augustyn .
communitywide	community-wide	JJ	communitywide	community-wide	30	6	by the end of the school year , officials hope to also teach the approach at the library , park district and in law enforcement offices to make it a communitywide effort , said dolly mandrelle , a positive behavior network coach for the district .	they want to make it a community-wide effort , said dolly mandrelle , a positive behavior network coach for the district .
shell	bullet	NN	shell	bullet	0	0	shell casings found around the blood-soaked basketball courts at cornell square park in the city 's back of the yards neighborhood were the kind typically fired from ak-47 rifles and rarely found in gang attacks on the city 's south and west sides .	bullet casings found around the blood-soaked basketball courts at cornell square park were the kind typically fired from ak-47 assault rifles .
main	top	JJ	main	top	21	21	kenyatta said in his television address that the military and police operation at the mall was '' delicate '' because the main priority was to save the lives of hostages .	kenyatta said in his television address that the military and police operation at the mall was '' delicate '' because the top goal was to save the lives of hostages .
exchange	share	NN	exchange	share	1	13	in exchange for a 4 percent piece of their companies , entrepreneurs in the program will gain access to mentors from stanford , apple and walmartlabs , among others .	the latino business people in the program will give up a 4 percent share of their companies .
noisy	loud	JJ	noisy	loud	22	6	to keep pesky birds away from his blueberries , veteran farmer mark flamm has blared recordings of avian distress calls , shot noisy '' bird bangers '' from a pistol and ordered an employee to shake a gravel-filled bottle at the sky .	flamm tried scaring them away with loud blasts of noise .
creation	formation	NN	creation	formation	12	30	one of the more unusual characteristics of the earthquake was the near-spontaneous creation of an island a few hundred yards off the coast of gwadar , a port city located about 200 miles southwest of awaran in the arabian sea .	gwadar , a port city located about 200 miles southwest of awaran in the arabian sea , saw one of the more unusual characteristics of the earthquake : the near-spontaneous formation of an island a few hundred yards off the coast .
paradox	contradiction	NN	paradox	contradiction	6	11	but the gulf states present a paradox : deeply involved in the war as some of the strongest backers for the syrian rebels yet holding firm to tight entry controls that effectively block most refugees .	but for those fleeing syria , the gulf states present a contradiction : though deeply involved in the war as some of the strongest backers of the syrian rebels , they are holding firm to tight entry controls that effectively block most refugees .
zone	part	NN	zone	part	13	11	the auction monday in dubai 's evolving art district tucked inside an industrial zone of warehouses and businesses served as a window into a small but forward-looking effort to save one niche of syria 's artistic community with no end in sight to the civil war that has already claimed more than 100,000 lives .	the auction in dubai 's art district this past monday is part of a small but forward-looking effort .
fictitious	imaginary	JJ	fictitious	imaginary	16	7	in the latest election this june , iran 's art community and others rallied around the fictitious candidacy of '' zahra , '' the heroine of a graphic novel narrative begun in 2009 .	iran 's art community rallied around the imaginary candidacy of comic book heroine '' zahra '' during this june 's election .
lifespan	life	NN	lifespan	life	29	10	persistent pollutants spiked in the baby whale 's first 6 months , a period that accounted for 20 percent of the total persistent pollutants in the whale 's 12-year lifespan .	some chemicals jumped in the whale 's first months of life .
health-care	health	NN	health-care	health	29	14	the house , run by republicans , passed a temporary proposal last week to keep the government open until mid-december , but the measure also would defund the federal health-care law , large parts of which are scheduled to take effect tuesday .	the catch is the measure also would stop money from going to the federal health care law .
health-care	care	NN	health-care	care	29	15	the house , run by republicans , passed a temporary proposal last week to keep the government open until mid-december , but the measure also would defund the federal health-care law , large parts of which are scheduled to take effect tuesday .	the catch is the measure also would stop money from going to the federal health care law .
apply	use	VB	apply	use	5	4	the armed forces hope to apply findings from such studies to the care of about 1,200 service personnel who have lost a lower limb in iraq and afghanistan .	the military hopes to use the findings from such studies to care for roughly 1,200 service men and women who have lost a lower limb in the wars in iraq and afghanistan .
thigh	leg	NN	thigh	leg	33	8	before vawter could strap on the bionic lower limb , engineers in chicago had to '' teach '' the prosthetic how to read his motor intentions from tiny muscle contractions in his right thigh .	vawter could n't just strap on the special leg .
indigenous	indigeneous	JJ	indigenous	indigeneous	26	31	in modern times , however , those same fabrics made their wearers targets for discrimination , marking them as part of the country 's poor and indigenous .	in modern times , however , their traditional fabrics , called huipiles , have made them targets for discrimination , and marked them as part of the country 's poor and indigeneous mayan indian civilization .
contestant	competitor	NN	contestant	competitor	27	16	figueroa , for one , won international recognition for the bright orange gown with a spray of floral design at the shoulders he designed for guatemala 's contestant at miss world 2012 .	figueroa has won international recognition for the dress he designed for guatemala 's miss world 2012 competitor .
contestant	contest	NN	contestant	contest	27	13	figueroa , for one , won international recognition for the bright orange gown with a spray of floral design at the shoulders he designed for guatemala 's contestant at miss world 2012 .	figueroa is famous for a dress he designed for the miss world beauty contest .
health	care	NN	health	care	35	20	people want to know if they can afford the premiums , if the coverage will be solid , where the bureaucratic pitfalls are and if new federal and state websites will really demystify shopping for health insurance .	people want to know if they can afford the monthly bill for their insurance and if they will get good care .
know	see	VB	know	see	3	8	people want to know if they can afford the premiums , if the coverage will be solid , where the bureaucratic pitfalls are and if new federal and state websites will really demystify shopping for health insurance .	they want to find the bureaucratic pitfalls and see if new federal and state websites will really demystify shopping for health insurance .
broad	big	JJ	broad	big	2	2	washington a broad swath of the public might not even notice the partial shutdown of the federal government tuesday , but many federal employees , government contractors and users of government services are likely to feel the pain .	washington a big chunk of the public might not even notice the partial shutdown of the federal government .
tourist-shock	tourist	NN	tourist-shock	tourist	19	19	the national mall , often called the nation 's front lawn , will be the most visible sign of tourist-shock , where the smithsonian 's marquee museums , such as the national air and space museum and the national museum of the american indian will be shuttered .	the national mall , often called the nation 's front lawn , will be the most visible sign of tourist shock .
tourist-shock	shock	NN	tourist-shock	shock	19	20	the national mall , often called the nation 's front lawn , will be the most visible sign of tourist-shock , where the smithsonian 's marquee museums , such as the national air and space museum and the national museum of the american indian will be shuttered .	the national mall , often called the nation 's front lawn , will be the most visible sign of tourist shock .
great	high	JJ	great	high	17	21	detroit pharmaceuticals , caffeine and items such as toothpaste additives have been found farther out in the great lakes than ever before , according to a new study that also raises concerns about their levels .	pharmaceuticals , caffeine and items such as toothpaste additives have been found farther out than ever before , and in worryingly high levels .
waste	wastewater	NN	waste	wastewater	14	3	the muskegon plant 's marketing plan was ultimately scrapped , but the data showed waste water treatment did not fully remove a number of products , including over-the-counter painkillers acetaminophen and ibuprofen ; lidocaine , a topical anesthetic ; and sucralose , the sweetener sold by the brand name splenda .	the data showed wastewater treatment did not fully remove a number of products .
momentum	push	NN	momentum	push	11	1	in recent weeks , the movement for reparations has been gaining momentum , occupying the attention of leaders of the 15-member caribbean community regional bloc , who have unanimously agreed to make a moral , ethical and if necessary legal case for the former colonial powers to pay up .	the push for reparations has been gaining steam in recent weeks .
ground	land	NN	ground	land	15	2	in the meantime , they are trying to find ways to grow good crops in ground that might contain lead or asphalt or old filled-in basements , with inconsistent irrigation and different types of weeds than you would find in a rural field .	it is land that also might have inconsistent irrigation and different types of weeds than found in a rural field where crops are grown .
single-chunk	single	JJ	single-chunk	single	25	25	from that point forward , there were 69 changes to the debt limit through the end of the 2007-2008 fiscal year , including the largest single-chunk increase , $ 984 billion in may 2003 , as america borrowed to pay for wars in afghanistan and iraq while also cutting taxes .	from that point on , there were 69 changes to the debt limit through the end of the 2007-2008 fiscal year , including the largest single increase , $ 984 billion in may 2003 .
far	long	RB	far	long	13	13	a clip from ub iwerks ' '' silly symphonies '' is shown not far from '' little nemo '' in the show 's '' beginnings '' section , which kicks off the show and is devoted to the emergence of the animated image .	a clip from ub iwerks ' '' silly symphonies '' is shown not long after '' little nemo '' in the show 's '' beginnings '' section .
heighten	increase	VB	heighten	increase	5	2	the lack of staff could heighten the possibility that some diseases could slip into the country at a time when measles is raging in turkey and cholera is breaking out in mexico .	that could increase the possibility that some diseases could slip into the country at a time when measles is raging in turkey and cholera is breaking out in mexico .
shrink	reduce	VB	shrink	reduce	11	6	but others perceive the courses as a dangerous fad that will shrink faculties , turn existing professors into glorified teaching assistants and replace meaningful classroom discussion with message boards and student-led forums .	they worry that moocs will drastically reduce the number of teachers hired , and turn professors into nothing more than glorified teaching assistants .
old	elderly	JJ	old	elderly	6	3	it reflects what advocates for the old have been warning , with increasing urgency , for years : nations are simply not working quickly enough to cope with a population graying faster than ever before .	supporters of the elderly have been warning for years that nations are simply not working quickly enough to cope with a population that is aging faster than ever before .
story	writing	NN	story	writing	2	22	stockholm short story master alice munro , who captures the everyday lives and epiphanies of men and women in rural canada with elegant and precise prose , won the nobel prize in literature on thursday .	munro , whose work captures the everyday lives and sudden revelations of men and women in rural canada with elegant and precise writing , became the first canadian writer to receive the award since 1976 .
literature	work	NN	literature	work	32	3	stockholm short story master alice munro , who captures the everyday lives and epiphanies of men and women in rural canada with elegant and precise prose , won the nobel prize in literature on thursday .	munro , whose work captures the everyday lives and sudden revelations of men and women in rural canada with elegant and precise writing , became the first canadian writer to receive the award since 1976 .
party	side	NN	party	side	35	3	a senior syrian rebel called the award a '' premature step '' that will divert the world 's attention from '' the real cause of the war '' while a lawmaker from syria 's ruling party declared the nobel to be a vindication of president bashar assad 's government .	on the other side , a lawmaker from syria 's government said the nobel prize helps president bashar assad .
prohibition	ban	NN	prohibition	ban	39	19	riyadh - saudi women 's rights activists posted online photographs and video clips of themselves defying a ban on female driving on thursday , two days after members of the influential shoura council called for an end to the prohibition .	their action came two days after a member of the influential shoura council called for an end to the ban .
increasingly	still	RB	increasingly	still	33	12	saudi arabia is the only country in the world where women are barred from driving , but debate about the ban , once confined to the private sphere and social media , is increasingly spreading to public forums too .	saudi arabia is the only country in the world where women are still barred from driving .
clerical	religious	JJ	clerical	religious	13	7	conservative supporters of the ban , including members of saudi arabia 's powerful clerical establishment , have said allowing women to drive will encourage the sexes to mix freely in public and thus threaten public morality .	supporters of the ban , including powerful religious figures , have said allowing women to drive will encourage the sexes to mix freely in public and thus threaten public morality .
chronic	long-term	JJ	chronic	long-term	19	18	saudi authorities sharply cut back on visas for groups such as the elderly , pregnant women and those with chronic illnesses as a precaution against a new respiratory virus related to sars that has killed more than 50 people in the kingdom this past year .	saudi authorities sharply cut back on visas for groups such old people , pregnant women and those with long-term illnesses .
guard	protect	VB	guard	protect	11	8	this year , though , some pilgrims are wearing masks to guard against the middle east respiratory syndrome , which has sickened nearly 100 people , most of them in saudi arabia and the middle east .	some pilgrims are wearing masks this year to protect against the middle east respiratory syndrome .
rich	wealthy	JJ	rich	wealthy	10	8	new york they speak different languages , live in countries rich and poor , face horrible job markets and healthy ones .	although they speak different languages , live in wealthy countries and poor ones , face good job markets and bad , when it comes to money they are acting as one .
add	increase	VB	add	increase	35	22	when it comes to money , though , they act as one : they 're holding tight to their cash , driven more by a fear of losing what they have than a desire to add to it .	families are holding tight to their cash , driven more by a fear of losing what they have than a desire to increase it .
dough	cash	NN	dough	cash	41	20	beijing if you want a full-time teaching job , but you 're stuck in a temporary gig without health benefits , luo chunlei advises that you buy the school principal a box of mooncakes and follow up with an envelope of dough .	luo chunlei advises that you buy the school principal a box of mooncakes and follow up with an envelope of cash .
glass	eyewear	NN	glass	eyewear	28	10	at chaotic moon studios , an austin , texas , mobile software firm , developers and engineers are working on a competitive product to google 's upcoming google glass eyewear that can log onto the internet .	it 's working on a product like google 's upcoming eyewear .
place	point	NN	place	point	5	4	west africa has a somber place in the history of transatlantic slavery as the departure gateway for slaves seized in raiding expeditions before they were shipped to the new world .	it was the departure point for many slaves who were seized from other parts of the continent .
enslavement	slavery	NN	enslavement	slavery	27	16	wars , extreme poverty , high levels of corruption and the world 's hunger for natural resources like gold and diamonds all contribute to the risk of enslavement in many african countries .	extreme poverty , wars and government corruption are some of the reasons people fall victim to slavery .
contribute	make	VBP	contribute	make	22	6	wars , extreme poverty , high levels of corruption and the world 's hunger for natural resources like gold and diamonds all contribute to the risk of enslavement in many african countries .	wars , poverty and dishonest governments make it easy for some to fall into slavery .
labor	work	NN	labor	work	31	28	it also called on the country to do more to support slaves leaving their masters and to help them mount legal action to receive the pay they are owed for their labor .	it also called on the country to do more to support slaves leaving their masters and to help them mount legal action to be paid back for their work as slaves .
action	work	NN	action	work	35	17	the report called on mauritania to conduct a nationwide investigation into continuing forms of slavery , end impunity for slaveholders and do more to support slaves leaving their masters and to help them mount legal action for compensation .	it suggested helping them leave their masters and going to court to get paid back for their work .
veritable	real	JJ	veritable	real	16	16	even when he died at the age of 76 , einstein 's corpus callosum was a veritable superhighway of connectivity , researchers reported this week in the journal brain .	even when he died at the age of 76 , einstein 's corpus callosum was a real superhighway of connectivity , researchers reported this week in the journal brain .
key	essential	JJ	key	essential	19	21	the brain 's extra folds showed evidence of unusual volume in a number of regions likely to have been key to einstein 's spatial and mathematical creativity .	the brain 's extra folds showed evidence of unusual volume in a number of regions that were likely to have been essential to einstein 's spatial and mathematical creativity .
worse	poorer	JJR	worse	poorer	1	4	even worse , american schools are not a great equalizer because those in low-income areas tend to have teachers without tenure , behavioral problems that slow down entire classes and more mobile families , he said .	likewise , students in poorer areas are more likely to have behavioral problems that slow down entire classes and more mobile families , he said .
collaboration	cooperation	NN	collaboration	cooperation	26	14	but melosh 's campaign suffered a setback last month when energy secretary ernest moniz signed an agreement with russia that could open the door to new collaboration between nuclear weapons scientists in everything from plutonium-fueled reactors to lasers and explosives research .	the united states signed a new agreement with russia that could lead to new cooperation between nuclear weapons scientists .
large-yield	large	JJ	large-yield	large	22	22	moreover , weapons experts in both countries are citing the asteroid threat as a reason to hold onto or to build very large-yield nuclear explosives , which have declining terrestrial justification .	weapons experts in the united states and russia say the asteroid threat is a reason to hold onto or to build very large nuclear bombs .
museum	gallery	NN	museum	gallery	1	1	the museum wants to see jan develop into a senior chinese-painting conservator , like her colleague gu xiang-mei .	the gallery , which is part of the smithsonian 's museum of asian art , wants to see jan develop into a senior chinese-painting conservator , like her co-worker gu xiangmei .
religious-based	religious	JJ	religious-based	religious	19	9	and a poll this year by the tanenbaum center for interreligious understanding in new york found the most common religious-based conflicts involved being required to work on a religious holiday or attending company events where foods were not halal , kosher or vegetarian .	and a poll this year by a center for religious understanding in new york focused on the most common conflicts involving religion at work .
necessitate	require	VB	necessitate	require	9	9	for example , a stolen load of pharmaceuticals might necessitate a worldwide recall of every drug with that lot number to ensure none of the product ends up back in the market in case it gets tampered with .	for example , a stolen load of pharmaceuticals might require a worldwide recall of every drug with that lot number to make sure none of the drugs end up back in the market in case they get tampered with .
faux	fake	JJ	faux	fake	26	11	some halloween enthusiasts plan on cutting back by buying '' a la carte '' that is , investing in a piece or two , such as faux facial hair or just a mask , instead of a full-fledged costume .	they will invest in a piece or two , such as fake facial hair or just a mask , instead of a full-fledged costume .
near-shore	shore	NN	near-shore	shore	17	21	the most likely cause was a current that carried the weak-swimming creature from still waters into a near-shore , more turbulent area , which they are n't adapted to surviving in .	the most likely cause was a current that carried the creatures from still waters into a more turbulent area near the shore .
air	area	NN	air	area	10	12	but the oil sands boom may also be polluting the air and water , and is stoking fear that it is damaging the health of those in its arc .	but there are fears that the oil sands production is polluting the area .
people	nations	NNS	people	nation	8	20	in fort chipewyan , a village of 1,100 people on the north shore of lake athabasca , cancer and autoimmune diseases such as lupus have taken a heavy toll on its mostly indigenous cree , dene and metis population during the last 20 years .	in fort chipewyan , diseases , like cancer , have affected the mostly native cree , dene and metis indian nations .
tablet	computer-tablet	JJ	tablet	computer-tablet	34	15	exhibiting ipad images by a prominent artist in a significant museum gives the medium a boost , said art historians , helping digital artwork gain legitimacy in the notoriously snobby art world where computer tablet art shows are rare and prices typically lower than comparable watercolors or oils .	the exposure helps digital artwork gain legitimacy in the notoriously snobby art world , where computer-tablet art shows are rare and prices are typically lower than for comparable watercolors or oils .
longstanding	long-standing	JJ	longstanding	long-standing	5	5	it expands the academy 's longstanding recommendations on banning televisions from children 's and teens ' bedrooms and limiting entertainment screen time to no more than two hours daily .	it expands the academy 's long-standing recommendations on banning televisions from children 's and teens ' bedrooms and limiting entertainment screen time to no more than two hours a day .
abducted	kidnapping	NN	abducted	kidnapping	17	14	but such hope disappeared within days when news outlets reported that a greek roma family might have abducted a blond girl who police found when they searched a roma settlement north of athens as part of a drugs and weapons investigation .	but such hope disappeared within days when a greek roma family was accused of kidnapping a blond girl found living with them .
amendment	change	NN	amendment	change	16	4	the oneidas asked goodell and snyder to '' visit our homelands , '' and sought an amendment to league bylaws to prohibit franchises from naming a team with any term that is a racial epithet .	they also sought a change to league rules to prohibit naming a team with any term that is a racial epithet , or offensive name .
previous	past	JJ	previous	past	26	3	the dutch are not the first to undertake such a review in the wake of a 1998 international conference on looted art in washington that found previous attempts to return looted art did n't go far enough .	they found that past attempts to return looted art did n't go far enough .
equipment	team	NN	equipment	team	25	1	the departure from fenway was delayed when a flatbed truck carrying dropkick murphys , a band which had played at the ceremony , and heavy equipment became stuck in the turf along the first-base line .	the team was delayed when it left the stadium , however .
retribution	punishment	NN	retribution	punishment	13	13	one female activist , who asked not to be identified for fear of retribution , said some campaigners have '' started to really panic '' after al-mubarak was detained .	one female activist , who asked not to be identified for fear of punishment , said some campaigners have '' started to really panic '' after al-mubarak was detained .
threshold	level	NN	threshold	level	20	18	he receives disability checks from the navy that keep him $ 2,000 below the poverty line , the government 's threshold for annual income determining if someone is in poverty .	in fact , he lives on $ 2,000 a year less than what the government views as the level for officially being poor .
non-poor	poor	JJ	non-poor	poor	18	14	in philadelphia , there 's a 50 percent higher prevalence of smoking among the poor than among the non-poor , according to giridhar mallya , director of policy and planning for the philadelphia department of public health .	in philadelphia , there is a 50 percent higher rate of smoking among the poor than those who are not poor , according to giridhar mallya .
provide	bring	VB	provide	bring	23	10	the plan to illuminate rjukan was cooked up 100 years ago by the norwegian industrialist sam eyde , who built the town to provide workers for a hydroelectric plant he located at the foot of a nearby waterfall .	norwegian businessman sam eyde came up with the plan to bring sunlight to rjukan 100 years ago .
renowned	well-known	JJ	renowned	well-known	1	10	the renowned engineer never saw his plan become reality , but his plant and the telemark town he founded developed a special affection in the norwegian imagination as the site of the country 's most famous wartime escapade .	but his plant and the town he founded still was well-known in norway .
global	worldwide	JJ	global	worldwide	6	2	especially at a time when the global conservation community is protecting the elephant and rhino from people with high-powered weapons , '' this action sends exactly the wrong signal , '' he said .	animal activists worldwide are joining together to protect the elephant and rhino from people with high-powered weapons , he said .
chief	main	JJ	chief	main	7	7	made of the protein keratin , the chief component in fingernails and hooves , the horn has been used in carvings and for medicinal purposes , mostly in asia .	made of the protein keratin , the main material of fingernails and hooves , the horn has been used in carvings and for medicinal purposes , mostly in asia .
ominous	disturbing	JJ	ominous	disturbing	12	10	the troubled , troubling relationship between the two offensive linemen took an ominous turn monday with fresh revelations : incognito sent text messages to his teammate that were racist and threatening , two people familiar with the situation said .	the troubled relationship between the two offensive linemen took a disturbing turn monday with fresh revelations that incognito sent threatening and racist text messages to his teammate , said two people who knew of the situation .
inkling	idea	NN	inkling	idea	9	9	it 's unclear whether coaches or management had any inkling of harassment between the players before martin left the team , and philbin declined to answer a question about the locker-room culture .	it 's unclear whether coaches or managers had any idea of harassment between the players before martin left the team .
concede	admit	VBP	concede	admit	7	9	even the biggest proponents of advanced statistics concede that these insights should be only one component of a team 's decision-making , just like game film and traditional player evaluations .	even the biggest supporters of this type of math admit that these insights should be only one part of a team 's decision-making .
infamous	notorious	JJ	infamous	notorious	2	2	in an infamous 1937 exhibition in munich , the nazis displayed 650 such objects sculptures , paintings , books with derisive commentaries explaining why artists such as chagall and wassily kandinsky ought to be reviled .	in a notorious 1937 exhibition in munich , the nazis displayed 650 such objects including sculptures , paintings and books .
volume	number	NN	volume	number	24	23	more than 54,000 passengers last year rode this 12-hour , overnight train to the bakken oil fields near williston more than doubling the passenger volume since north dakota 's latest oil boom began .	more than 54,000 passengers last year rode this 12-hour , overnight train to the bakken oil fields near williston more than doubling the number of passengers since north dakota 's latest oil boom began .
diligently	carefully	RB	diligently	carefully	24	24	at the hotel , her son garrett , 10 , and his friends perched on their bunk beds and pulled out their looms , diligently hooking rubber bands around the pegs .	at the hotel , her son garrett , 10 , and his friends perched on their bunk beds and pulled out their looms , carefully hooking rubber bands around the pegs .
aspiration	quest	NN	aspiration	quest	34	34	architect rick bell , the executive director of the new york chapter of the american institute of architects , said the new building , like the old , speaks to the national and international aspiration for height .	architect rick bell , the executive director of the new york chapter of the american institute of architects , said the new building , like the old , speaks to the national and international quest for height .
free-books	free	JJ	free-books	free	15	1	little free libraries are handcrafted structures full of books for children and adults , a free-books movement that has spread not only around illinois but onto lawns around the world .	little free libraries are handmade structures stocked with books for children and adults , and have started a free books movement that has spread onto lawns around the world .
affluent	prosperous	JJ	affluent	prosperous	12	12	they staff cruise ships in the caribbean , clean homes in the affluent persian gulf , work as nannies in europe and crew merchant marine vessels the world over .	they staff cruise ships in the caribbean , clean homes in the prosperous persian gulf , work as nannies in europe and crew merchant marine vessels the world over .
alleviate	lighten	VB	alleviate	lighten	8	8	adding wednesday to the mix is supposed to alleviate that burden , at a time when the declining performance of french students is becoming a source of heavy concern .	adding wednesday to the mix is supposed to lighten that burden , at a time when the declining performance of french students is becoming a source of heavy concern .
great	good	JJ	great	good	12	4	vincent peillon , france 's education minister , says he feels '' great serenity '' over a reform that is clearly in the best interest of the nation 's young .	he says he feels good about the change .
everybody	everyone	NN	everybody	everyone	0	0	everybody agrees that the day is too compressed and that something needs to be changed , '' said peter gumbel , a professor at sciences po university here and the author of a bestselling book on problems in the french education system .	everyone agrees '' that kids are overloaded '' and that the school days are too filled up , said peter gumbel , a professor at sciences po university here .
ample	plentiful	JJ	ample	plentiful	41	5	panthera blytheae , named for the daughter of longtime museum benefactors paul and heather haaga of la canada flintridge , was slightly smaller than the snow leopard and probably roamed the tibetan plateau for several million years , dining on an ample supply of antelope , pika and blue sheep , according to paleontologist zhijie jack tseng , lead author of the paper .	there it dined on a plentiful supply of antelope , pika and blue sheep , according to paleontologist zhijie jack tseng .
analysis	test	NN	analysis	test	4	6	a more detailed genetic analysis of the eight genes that make up the h6n1 virus revealed that seven of the genes were closely related to a flu strain isolated from taiwanese chickens this year .	scientists did a more detailed genetic test of the eight genes that make up the h6n1 virus .
poultry	chicken	NN	poultry	chicken	3	3	brown 's imitation poultry is so convincing that tech giants such as microsoft 's bill gates and twitter co-founders biz stone and evan williams have put in money to get it made .	brown 's imitation chicken is so convincing that important people have put up money to help it get made .
constituency	group	NN	constituency	group	23	23	washington while president barack obama 's popularity has slipped in public opinion polls , he found plenty of support wednesday among one key constituency : the 566 leaders of federally recognized indian tribes .	washington while president barack obama 's popularity has slipped in public opinion polls , he still has strong support among one key voting group : the leaders of the 566 indian tribes recognized by the government .
strong	good	JJ	strong	good	17	2	washington while president barack obama 's popularity has slipped in public opinion polls , he still has strong support among one key voting group : the leaders of the 566 indian tribes recognized by the government .	that 's good because his popularity has slipped in surveys of other americans .
property	land	NN	property	land	72	24	obama and his team outlined their list of accomplishments , including : renewing the violence against women act , which makes it easier for tribes to prosecute non-indians for domestic violence ; getting an additional 230,000 acres placed into trust on behalf of the tribes ; spending more on law enforcement , schools and emergency relief ; launching a nearly $ 2 billion buyback program later this year to return thousands of property parcels to tribes ; and creating the first white house council on native american affairs .	these include renewing a law that makes it easier for tribes to charge non-indians for domestic violence ; getting an additional 230,000 acres of land for the tribes ; spending more on law enforcement , schools and emergency relief ; and creating the first white house council on native american affairs .
co2	dioxide	NN	co2	dioxide	1	2	increasing co2 not only makes oceans more corrosive , it reduces carbonate ions , which everything from scallops to crabs , coral and sea urchins need to build shells or skeletons .	increasing carbon dioxide in the oceans reduces carbonate ions in the water .
weather	air	NN	weather	air	5	10	that 's when information from weather stations , weather balloons , satellite imagery and radar suggested there was more than enough moisture fuel for storms making its way northeast from the gulf of mexico .	it suggested there was more than enough moisture in the air .
give	donate	VBP	give	donate	21	20	digital technology has changed the face of philanthropy , for both aid groups who ask for money , and donors who give aid groups the money that they put to work helping people .	digital technology has changed the face of philanthropy , for aid groups who ask for money and the people who donate money so that the aid groups can help people .
k-12	k	NN	k-12	k	11	11	state leaders who developed the common core a set of preferred k-12 course offerings for public schools omitted cursive for a host of reasons , including an increasing need for children in a digital-heavy age to master computer keyboarding and evidence that even most adults use some hybrid of classic cursive and print in everyday life .	state leaders who developed the common core a set of preferred k 12 course offerings for public schools omitted cursive for various reasons .
gravesite	cemetery	NN	gravesite	cemetery	27	16	first lady michelle obama and former secretary of state hillary rodham clinton helped their husbands place a large wreath of white flowers in front of the roped-off gravesite of america 's 35th president , which is marked by an ever-burning flame .	first lady michelle obama and former secretary of state hillary rodham clinton were also at the cemetery .
rectify	correct	VB	rectify	correct	1	1	to rectify that situation , thomas goetz , a professor of empirical educational research at the university of konstanz in germany , and his colleagues recruited two sets of test subjects 63 college students and 80 high school students .	to correct this , a team led by education researcher thomas goetz recruited two sets of test subjects : 63 college students and 80 high school students .
modern	recent	JJ	modern	recent	18	3	after analyzing the mitochondrial genomes of 18 ancient dogs and wolves and comparing them with an array of modern counterparts , evolutionary biologists have concluded that dog domestication most likely occurred in ice age europe 18,800 to 32,100 years ago .	according to a recent study in the journal science , evolutionary biologists have concluded that dogs were first domesticated most likely in ice age europe 18,800 to 32,100 years ago .
planning	plan	NN	planning	plan	28	6	each province , city or district should make a specific timetable based on local conditions , '' wang peian , vice minister of the national health and family planning commission , was quoted as telling the official new china news agency over the weekend .	each local government should make a plan based on local conditions , one government official said .
ablaze	fire	NN	ablaze	fire	25	27	the police claim they did n't have enough forces to protect the roughly 2,000 churches nationwide , particularly as their police stations were also set ablaze during the outbreak of violence after morsi 's ouster .	the police claim they did n't have enough forces to protect the roughly 2,000 churches in egypt , particularly as their police stations were also set on fire during the outbreak of violence after morsi 's ouster .
proper	decent	JJ	proper	decent	32	31	the supreme court made two historic decisions : that race can not be the reason to keep someone off a jury , and that people on trial have the right to a proper lawyer .	the supreme court made two historic decisions : that jury members can not be excluded because of their skin color , and that people on trial have the right to a decent lawyer .
multi-role	multirole	JJ	multi-role	multirole	22	16	going forward , the air force has said it wants to rid itself of one-mission planes in favor of a fleet of multi-role aircraft .	the air force has said it wants to rid itself of one-mission planes in favor of multirole aircraft that can blast apart enemies on the ground and in the sky .
detect	discover	VB	detect	discover	8	5	not only does venter say his invention will detect and decode dna hiding in otherworldly soil or water samples proving once and for all that we are not alone in the universe it also will beam that information back to earth and allow scientists to reconstruct living copies in a biosafety facility .	venter says the technology will discover and decode dna the basic building blocks of life hiding in soil or water samples collected on other planets .
archeology	archaeology	NN	archeology	archaeology	11	6	robin coningham , the paper 's lead author and professor of archeology at durham university in britain , said the dig revealed a previously undiscovered temple built of wood beneath a succession of later brick temples .	he 's also a professor of archaeology in britain .
early	rapid	JJ	early	rapid	11	24	youth sports in several metropolitan areas is exploding at a very early age with increased competition , seemingly unlimited options to play and pressure to compete in a single sport , year-round .	there is increased competition , seemingly unlimited options to play and pressure to compete in a single sport , year-round , leading to a rapid increase in injuries even before middle school .
competition	match	NN	competition	match	10	10	the silver medal evans won in february in her last competition of the season in sochi was special , and still made her eyes misty when she recounted it six months later .	the silver medal evans won in february in her last match of the season in sochi was special .
deliver	give	VB	deliver	give	10	9	president obama supports a higher minimum-wage but unfortunately did n't deliver on his campaign promise to push for the employee free choice act , which would go a long way to restoring workers ' rights to form unions and bargain collectively .	the act would have gone a long way to give workers the rights to form unions and ask for higher pay .
white	white-only	JJ	white	white-only	34	32	johannesburg nelson mandela , who became one of the world 's most beloved statesmen and a colossus of the 20th century when he emerged from 27 years in prison to negotiate an end to white minority rule in south africa , has died .	johannesburg nelson mandela became one of the world 's most beloved leaders and a hero of the 20th century when he emerged from 27 years in prison to arrange the end of white-only rule in south africa .
decades-long	long	JJ	decades-long	long	10	10	thousands died , were tortured and were imprisoned in the decades-long struggle against apartheid , so that when mandela emerged from prison in 1990 , smiling and waving to the crowds , the image became an international icon of freedom to rival the fall of the berlin wall .	thousands died , were tortured and were imprisoned in the long struggle against apartheid .
revolution	revolutionary	NN	revolution	revolutionary	14	11	south africa 's white rulers had portrayed mandela as the spearhead of a communist revolution and insisted that black majority rule would usher in the chaos and bloodshed that had beset many other african countries as they shook off colonial rule .	south africa 's white rulers had portrayed mandela as a communist revolutionary .
young	small	JJ	young	small	1	4	many young iranians gravitate to the snug coffeehouses that have sprung up in recent years and would n't be out of place in london , new york or los angeles .	they gather in the small coffeehouses that have opened up recently .
carry	hold	VB	carry	hold	25	3	the 82-page-document , published on the new york times ' website , also noted that opponents could use video games to recruit other users or carry out virtual weapons training pointing to the sept .	they could also hold weapons training , the document said .
82-page-document	document	NN	82-page-document	document	1	8	the 82-page-document , published on the new york times ' website , also noted that opponents could use video games to recruit other users or carry out virtual weapons training pointing to the sept .	they could also hold weapons training , the document said .
involve	include	VBP	involve	include	39	2	other magnet-containing products are equally worrisome , she said , citing metallic bulletin boards that have little magnet pins , refrigerator magnets that look like candies or coffee beans -lrb- begging to be tasted -rrb- and fishing games that involve a magnet on a rod .	these products include metallic bulletin boards with little magnet pins .
dark-sky	sky	NN	dark-sky	sky	14	15	the sad truth , says ingram , who heads a local group of dedicated dark-sky advocates , is that the current bunch of us will be the first in the history of the planet to go most or all the way through life failing to grasp our place in the universe .	the sad truth , he says , is that there is n't much real night sky left .
perpetual	constant	JJ	perpetual	constant	11	4	early warning signs are troubling , with research suggesting links between perpetual light exposure and interruptions of the body 's natural hormonal cycles perhaps contributing to obesity , depression and other maladies .	research suggests links between constant light exposure and interruptions of the body 's natural hormonal cycles .
big	much	JJ	big	much	35	11	even when the attacks became physical , the springfield teenager would '' come home and not act like it was fine , but act like she was dealing with it and it was n't that big a deal , '' hooten said .	krista hooten said her daughter did not tell her just how much she was being bullied .
program	course	NN	program	course	30	8	while bullying has always been an issue , one of the reasons it is more discussed today is the rise in activity online , said susan davies , school psychology program coordinator at the university of dayton .	bullying has always been an issue , of course , but it 's even more of a problem today because of the rise of activity online .
academy	school	NN	academy	school	3	8	the ohio virtual academy is not immune to cyberbullying , but does have a zero-tolerance policy , like many schools , said kristin stewart , senior head of school .	but , according to the head of the school , kristin stewart , the school has a zero-tolerance policy .
zero-tolerance	tolerance	NN	zero-tolerance	tolerance	14	12	the ohio virtual academy is not immune to cyberbullying , but does have a zero-tolerance policy , like many schools , said kristin stewart , senior head of school .	but , according to principal kristin stewart , the school has zero tolerance for bullying .
senior	principal	JJ	senior	principal	25	4	the ohio virtual academy is not immune to cyberbullying , but does have a zero-tolerance policy , like many schools , said kristin stewart , senior head of school .	but , according to principal kristin stewart , the school has zero tolerance for bullying .
abandon	quit	VB	abandon	quit	10	10	experts say the expense and frustration often leads students to abandon school : complete college america , a nonprofit that advocates for changes in the remediation system , says that only 14 percent of illinois community college students who take remedial classes graduate in three years .	experts say the expense and frustration often leads students to quit school .
school	education	NN	school	education	11	32	experts say the expense and frustration often leads students to abandon school : complete college america , a nonprofit that advocates for changes in the remediation system , says that only 14 percent of illinois community college students who take remedial classes graduate in three years .	only 14 percent of illinois community college students who take remedial classes graduate in three years , according to complete college america , a nonprofit that 's trying to change the remedial education system .
forefront	edge	NN	forefront	edge	8	9	philadelphia the university of pennsylvania is at the forefront of a movement to experiment with free open online courses , but the undertaking , as its own researchers are finding out , has yielded mixed results .	philadelphia the university of pennsylvania is at the leading edge of a movement to experiment with free open online courses .
trauma	injury	NN	trauma	injury	22	12	following a season of grueling practices and hard-fought games , football and ice hockey players who had no outward sign of head trauma showed worrisome changes in brain structure and cognitive performance that were n't shared by athletes who competed in varsity sports such as track , crew and cross-country skiing , according to a report published wednesday in the journal neurology .	football and ice hockey players who had no outward signs of head injury showed worrisome changes in brain structure and mental performance following the season .
draw	learn	VB	draw	learn	25	12	the findings add to a growing body of evidence suggesting that a season-long succession of small hits none hard enough to cause evident disorientation or draw medical attention may prompt changes in the brain that cause problems with memory , mood or mental performance years down the road .	those brain changes cause problems with memory , mood or ability to learn years later .
matter	thing	NN	matter	thing	7	5	the new results do n't resolve the matter , but they do suggest that repetitive blows to the head are not without consequence , even when an athlete is able to get up and keep playing , said study leader thomas mcallister , a psychiatrist at indiana university .	but they do suggest one thing : repeated blows to the head can cause damage .
arduous	difficult	JJ	arduous	difficult	33	32	the stunning vistas were of little solace to displaced syrians , many of whom were found in their improvised enclaves clearing out the snow , slush and mud that had made an already arduous life more grueling .	the views were of little comfort to displaced syrians , many of whom were found in their improvised enclaves clearing out the snow , slush and mud that had made an already difficult life more grueling .
face	cope	VBP	face	cope	18	18	their thoughts remain with loved ones back in syria , where so many in besieged , rubble-strewn communities face daily explosions and clashes , as well as being cut off from regular supplies of food , fuel and water .	their thoughts remain with loved ones back in syria , where so many in besieged , rubble-strewn communities cope with daily explosions and clashes , as well as being cut off from regular supplies of food , fuel and water .
analyze	test	VB	analyze	test	11	11	that may be because its inner lab cooks soil samples to analyze the gases they form , and the test winds up destroying some crucial information in the process .	that may be because the rover heats up soil samples to test the gases they contain .
sampling	sample	NN	sampling	sample	21	14	the geologists soon realized that the edge of the scarp had once extended to the top of the rocks they were sampling ; over time it eroded away , leaving the rock underneath newly exposed to radiation .	the scientists realized that the cliff had once covered the rocks they wanted to sample .
search	dig	VB	search	dig	22	4	if any organic carbon exists in gale crater , the foot of one of these scarps would be the best place to search for it , the scientists concluded .	the rover will now dig at the foot of one of these cliffs .
food	grain	NN	food	grain	41	15	tests showed that one of the chinese cats appeared to eat more millet than would be expected of a carnivore living in the wild , raising '' the possibility that this cat was unable to hunt and scavenged for discarded human food or that it was looked after and fed by people , '' the study authors wrote .	tests showed that one of the chinese cats appeared to eat more millet , or grain , than would be expected of a carnivore living in the wild .
deficit	shortfall	NN	deficit	shortfall	18	15	washington the budget control act of 2011 required automatic spending cuts unless congress could agree on a long-term deficit reduction plan .	washington the budget control act of 2011 was designed to force congress to reduce the shortfall between the amount of money the government was spending and how much it was collecting from taxes .
grand	big	JJ	grand	big	9	6	the worst deal of all would be a '' grand bargain '' a long-term budget deal to avoid the cuts in pentagon spending by cutting social security and medicare benefits instead .	some leaders in congress want a big deal to avoid the cuts in military spending .
senior	elderly	JJ	senior	elderly	15	15	this is no bargain ; it is more like '' grand theft '' from our senior citizens : their average social security check is about $ 1,100 a month and makes up most of their income .	this is no bargain ; it is more like '' grand theft '' from the elderly : their average social security check is about $ 1,100 a month .
nose	eye	NN	nose	eye	7	9	under 10 pounds and 5 feet long nose to tail , the aircraft is the size of a turkey and blair uses it to get a birds-eye view of his cows and fields of wheat , peas , barley and alfalfa .	blair uses it to get a bird 's - eye view of his cows and fields of wheat , peas , barley and alfalfa .
snow	snowfall	NN	snow	snowfall	22	26	and the possibilities are endless : flying gizmos could be used to ward off birds from fields , pollinate trees , do snow surveys to forecast water supply , monitor irrigation , or plant and harvest crops .	and the possibilities are endless : flying gizmos could be used to scare off birds from fields , pollinate trees , forecast water supply based on snowfall , and monitor irrigation .
airplane	aircraft	NN	airplane	aircraft	21	1	blair 's drone , built in 2008 , is n't breaking the law , because his aircraft is essentially a model airplane allowed by the faa as long as it 's flown below 400 feet above ground level , far from populated areas and no one is compensated for the flight .	model aircraft are allowed by the faa as long as they 're flown below 400 feet above ground level , far from populated areas and no one is paid for the flight .
foster	build	VB	foster	build	21	6	while too much parent involvement can cause problems , as happens in some high-income schools , many other schools struggle to foster any ties with most of their families especially in the growing numbers of neighborhoods where teachers and students do n't share a language , a culture or a zip code .	but many other schools struggle to build ties with parents of students .
cause	create	VB	cause	create	6	6	while too much parent involvement can cause problems , as happens in some high-income schools , many other schools struggle to foster any ties with most of their families especially in the growing numbers of neighborhoods where teachers and students do n't share a language , a culture or a zip code .	but many other schools struggle to create ties with the parents of their students .
nature	type	NN	nature	type	30	3	the jellyfish 's simple body structure has its advantages when it comes to building flying robots on both a large and small scale , because they vary so much in nature .	their simple body type helps when it comes to building flying robots .
list	name	NN	list	name	10	6	then there are the loved ones she lost , a list that includes the 23-year-old daughter who died of alcohol poisoning and the 21-year-old grandson her dead daughter 's boy who got drunk and got behind the wheel of his car after a party .	the 21-year-old grandson , whose indian name was kush-a , got drunk and got behind the wheel of his car after a party .
situation	problem	NN	situation	problem	2	4	the worsening situation led some arivaca residents to band together last year to form people helping people , a group that provides aid to border crossers in the area .	last year , this problem led some people in arivaca to band together .
thought	idea	NN	thought	idea	8	8	at the heart of standards-based grading is the thought that students should be awarded grades for demonstrating they have mastered a subject not for the work they completed along the way .	at the heart of standards-based grading is the idea that students should be graded on how well they know a subject , not the work they did .
say	tell	VBP	say	tell	5	1	teachers who like standards-based ideas say they still stress the importance of doing homework , by notifying parents if it 's not complete or not allowing students to retake tests until they complete the assignments .	they tell parents if work is not complete .
dangerous	treacherous	JJ	dangerous	treacherous	10	10	chicago snow-covered roads , high winds and ice were creating dangerous driving conditions sunday from the dakotas to missouri to delaware ahead of a '' polar vortex '' that 'll bring below-zero and possibly record-breaking temperatures not seen in years to much of the nation .	chicago snow-covered roads , high winds and ice made travel treacherous sunday from the dakotas to missouri to delaware ahead of a '' polar vortex '' that will bring below-zero temperatures not seen in years to much of the nation .
korea	korean	JJ	korea	korean	3	22	pyongyang , north korea dennis rodman said monday that a game he and other former national basketball association players are planning in north korea will be a '' birthday present '' for one of their most unlikely fans : leader kim jong un .	pyongyang , north korea dennis rodman is giving a '' birthday present '' to one of his most unlikely fans : north korean leader kim jong un .
milestone	stage	NN	milestone	stage	5	5	the game will be another milestone in rodman 's surprising relationship with kim , who rarely meets with foreigners and about whom very little is known outside of north korea .	the game will be another stage in rodman 's surprising relationship with kim , who rarely meets with foreigners and about whom very little is known outside of north korea .
potential	chance	NN	potential	chance	8	7	the report said that the findings showed the potential for small fish -lrb- between 2 and 4 inches in length -rrb- to pass the barrier in large groups , or schools .	the report said that there 's a chance that small fish -lrb- between 2 and 4 inches in length -rrb- could pass the barrier in large groups .
head	position	NN	head	position	21	15	with pontius co-writing the new policy paper , the national association of school nurses changed its recommendations to allow students with head lice known as pediculosis to stay in class .	with pontius co-writing the new guidelines , the national association of school nurses changed its position .
debris	waste	NN	debris	waste	17	14	the authors wrote that '' this may suggest an effort to keep activities '' that produced harmful debris away from those parts of the shelter that were more enclosed .	for instance , they may have wanted to keep activities that produced very unpleasant waste away from other parts of the cave that were more enclosed .
light	small	JJ	light	small	22	22	that regulation presents a huge challenge to automakers : between now and 2025 the average fuel economy of a new car or light truck must increase from less than 30 miles per gallon to more than 50 miles per gallon while the share of '' zero emission vehicles '' mostly electrics in california and nine other states must rise from less than 1 percent to 15 percent of new vehicle fleets .	the regulations present a huge challenge to automakers : between now and 2025 the average fuel economy of a new car or small truck must increase from less than 30 miles per gallon -lrb- mpg -rrb- to more than 50 mpg .
auto	automaker	NN	auto	automaker	27	15	however , based on hard work that began four years ago , the second generation of plug-in vehicles is about to hit vehicle showrooms , as every auto maker from toyota to volkswagen will be offering some form of plug-in vehicle .	the second generation of plug-in vehicles is about to hit vehicle showrooms , as every automaker from toyota to volkswagen will be offering some form of plug-in vehicle .
electric	all-electric	JJ	electric	all-electric	12	10	according to the congressional budget office , the lifetime cost of an electric hybrid car is $ 12,000 more than a conventional vehicle , so subsidies have to be at least 60 percent higher than the current maximum federal subsidy of $ 7,500 to overcome the cost disparity .	according to the cbo , the lifetime cost of an all-electric car or hybrid plug-in car is $ 12,000 more than a traditional hybrid or conventional gas-powered vehicle .
device	system	NN	device	system	14	12	the los angeles unified school district , however , is paying $ 768 per device for its students , teachers and administrators , making it one of the nation 's most expensive technology programs .	the los angeles unified school district , the country 's second-largest school system , also has one of the nation 's most expensive technology programs .
ingest	swallow	VBP	ingest	swallow	18	17	the physiological effects of visible plastic debris on the fish , birds , turtles and marine mammals that ingest it are well-documented : clogged intestines , suffocation , loss of vital nutrients , starvation .	the effects of visible plastic debris on the fish , birds , turtles and marine mammals that swallow it are well-documented : clogged intestines , suffocation , loss of vital nutrients , starvation .
relevant	important	JJ	relevant	important	8	8	but the sheer number of smokers is most relevant when it comes to the public - health impact , said ruth malone , who studies global tobacco issuesat the university of california , san francisco .	but the sheer number of smokers is most important when it comes to the public-health impact , said ruth malone .
plummet	fall	VBP	plummet	fall	28	28	uruguay , which was the first nation to adopt a set of who-recommended policies , such as higher cigarette taxes and restrictions on advertising , saw smoking rates plummet 25 percent in just three years .	uruguay , which was the first nation to adopt a set of who-recommended policies , such as higher cigarette taxes and restrictions on advertising , saw smoking rates fall 25 percent in just three years .
task	role	NN	task	role	9	1	in addition , president barack obama established the interagency task force on electronics stewardship in 2010 to encourage development of '' greener '' electronic devices and to boost domestic recycling .	its role is to encourage development of '' greener '' electronic devices and to boost domestic recycling .
isolate	separate	VB	isolate	separate	26	8	industrial-scale shredders turn circuit boards and hard drives into voluminous bits of glass , metal and plastics , which require further processing in a smelter to isolate the gold , silver , copper and palladium , said ted smith , founder of the san francisco-based electronics takeback coalition .	those pieces then have to be melted to separate valuable metals , said ted smith .
easy	smooth	JJ	easy	smooth	29	16	1 , they fear americans who have enrolled in health insurance for the first time under the aca are likely to discover that having coverage does n't guarantee them easy access to a primary care doctor , dentist or mental health professional .	getting to see a primary care doctor , dentist or mental health professional may not be smooth sailing .
insufficient	enough	JJ	insufficient	enough	30	13	according to the health resources and services administration , the federal agency charged with improving access to health care , nearly 20 percent of americans live in areas with an insufficient number of primary care doctors .	according to it , nearly 20 percent of americans live in areas without enough primary care doctors .
shortage	shortfall	NN	shortage	shortfall	21	21	according to the association of american medical colleges -lrb- aamc -rrb- , unless something changes rapidly , there will be a shortage of 45,000 primary care doctors in the united states by 2020 .	according to the association of american medical colleges -lrb- aamc -rrb- , unless something changes rapidly , there will be a shortfall of 45,000 primary care doctors in the united states by 2020 .
hurt	injured	VBN	hurt	injure	7	7	by comparison , the odds of being hurt in a bathroom accident , leading to a hospital visit , are about 1 in 1,037 in a given year , according to the centers for disease control and prevention .	by comparison , the odds of being injured in the bathroom and requiring a visit to the hospital are about 1 in 1,037 in a given year .
consumption	eating	NN	consumption	eating	6	8	in a detailed accounting of youth consumption and exercise patterns , researchers from harvard university 's kennedy school of government found that physical activity may account largely for the divergent trend in obesity between rich and poor .	researchers from harvard university surveyed youth about their eating and exercise patterns .
grader	fourth-grader	NN	grader	fourth-grader	5	5	in south florida a fourth grader was involuntarily hospitalized for a week last august after threatening to attack a teacher 's face with a pencil and throwing chairs and overturning tables in the classroom .	in south florida , a fourth-grader was put in the hospital last august after threatening to attack a teacher 's face with a pencil .
single-app	single	JJ	single-app	single	11	12	parents also were not told that entering their password for a single-app purchase started a 15-minute clock during which kids could make unlimited purchases without any further action by an adult , the agency said .	parents also were not told that entering their password to buy a single app started a 15-minute clock .
course	way	NN	course	way	26	11	as part of the settlement , apple also must change its billing practices to make it more obvious that a purchase is taking place during the course of the game or app .	as part of the agreement , apple also must change the way it bills customers .
consent	permission	NN	consent	permission	40	28	in that case , apple agreed to contact 28 million of its app customers to offer them a $ 5 store credit or a $ 30 cash refund if their children had spent at least that much money without parental consent .	apple offered them a $ 5 store credit or a $ 30 cash refund if their children had spent at least that much money without their parents ' permission .
income	revenue	NN	income	revenue	15	18	children 's apps sold in apple 's store brought in about 44 percent of its income from purchases made while using the software during november , according to the research firm app annie .	in november , children 's apps sold in apple 's store brought in about 44 percent of the revenue from purchases made while using the software , according to the research firm app annie .
deficiency	lack	NN	deficiency	lack	10	1	the two main consequences are later-in-life diabetes , and iron deficiency that , especially in the first three years of life , can damage a developing brain so that children have trouble learning in school , he said .	a lack of iron in the body , especially in the first three years of life , can damage a developing brain so that children have trouble learning in school .
document	report	NN	document	report	1	1	the document from the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change -lrb- ipcc -rrb- runs to 2,200 pages and is crammed with technical details about greenhouse gas emissions , rising sea levels and atmospheric circulation .	the report is crammed with technical details about greenhouse gas emissions , rising sea levels and atmospheric circulation filling up some 2,200 pages .
perspective	view	NN	perspective	view	20	18	although 2013 was california 's driest calendar year in 119 years of records , from a hydrological and water supply perspective , the state is just now tipping into drought .	although 2013 was california 's driest calendar year in 119 years of records , from the point of view of water supply , the state is just now tipping into drought .
share	portion	NN	share	portion	20	18	in the united states , china and portugal , the report said , the wealthiest 1 percent had seen its share of income more than double in the same period .	the report said that in the united states , china and portugal , the very wealthiest grew their portion of wealth by more than two times .
english	english-language	JJ	english	english-language	7	6	but in contrast to printed books in english , which have lost sales to cheaper electronic versions , e-books in spanish are delivering content where little existed before .	but whereas cheaper electronic versions of english-language books have led to a drop in print sales , e-books in spanish are selling in a market where few could be found before .
import	importance	NN	import	importance	21	21	it makes it seem as if '' gays and lesbians could not be trusted to reason fairly on issues of great import to the community or the nation , '' he wrote .	it gives the impression that '' gays and lesbians could not be trusted to reason fairly on issues of great -lrb- importance -rrb- to the community or the nation , '' he wrote .
emit	release	VBP	emit	release	41	20	equally important , the white house and the environmental protection agency -lrb- epa -rrb- are developing regulations for new and existing coal-fired power plants that promise to begin shifting the nation away from use of coal to other energy resources that emit far fewer greenhouse gases .	these promise to begin shifting the nation away from the use of coal and toward other types of energy that release far fewer greenhouse gases .
cocktail	mix	NN	cocktail	mix	16	11	but those colonies have been collapsing , and scientists have attributed that devastation to a deadly cocktail of pathogens , as well as pesticides and beekeeping practices that stress the insect 's immune system .	scientists have attributed that devastation to various factors : a deadly mix of pathogens , pesticides sprayed on crops that can kill bees , and beekeeping practices that weaken the bees ' resistance to disease .
demise	death	NN	demise	death	7	13	the virus ' relative role in the demise of colonies has not been measured it would be difficult to separate it from a cocktail of pathogens and stresses negatively affecting bees , chen said .	just how big a role the new virus has been playing in the death of colonies is unknown .
lethal	fatal	JJ	lethal	fatal	10	10	another study found 35 pesticides and fungicides , some at lethal levels , in the pollen collected from bees servicing major food crops in five states , including california .	another study found 35 pesticides and fungicides , some at fatal levels , in the pollen collected from bees servicing major food crops .
soccerlike	soccer-like	JJ	soccerlike	soccer-like	31	20	county officials described the addition of futsal courts , sometimes at the expense of general park space , as being necessary to make community parks relevant for today 's demand for soccerlike activities .	county officials described the addition of futsal courts as being necessary to update community parks for today 's demand for soccer-like activities .
disclose	release	VB	disclose	release	18	13	since snowden began leaking documents in june , his supporters have maintained they have been careful not to disclose any intelligence official 's name or operational details that could compromise ongoing surveillance .	since then , his supporters have maintained they have been careful not to release any intelligence official 's name .
movie	film	NN	movie	film	18	1	filmed over five days last summer at old world wisconsin with the help of 200 re-enactors , the movie shows three men joining the union army for different reasons and heading off to battle .	the film follows three men who join the union army for different reasons and head off to battle .
perspective	light	NN	perspective	light	39	33	but pete kolsky , a former senior water and sanitation specialist with the world bank and now a professor at the university of north carolina , believes the '' reinvent the toilet '' initiative needs to be put into perspective .	but pete kolsky , a water and sanitation expert and professor at the university of north carolina , believes the '' reinvent the toilet '' idea needs to be put in the proper light .
timing	time	NN	timing	time	5	13	but he still said the timing of the storm warning from the national weather service was a problem .	he also said the state had learned its lesson , and that next time it would urge the public not to try to go home at the same time .
weather	time	NN	weather	time	13	13	but he still said the timing of the storm warning from the national weather service was a problem .	he also said the state had learned its lesson , and that next time it would urge the public not to try to go home at the same time .
algebra	math	NN	algebra	math	3	6	both states require algebra ii , as do alabama , arizona , arkansas , delaware , georgia , kentucky , louisiana , michigan , new mexico , north carolina , ohio , south dakota , tennessee and utah .	other states that require the tougher math class include alabama , arizona , arkansas , delaware , georgia , kentucky , louisiana , michigan , new mexico , north carolina , ohio , south dakota , tennessee and utah .
small	low	JJ	small	low	21	9	but the grade was too steep , and march was forced to reverse the jets , which sent a barrage of small rocks up into the underbelly of the car .	march drove onto the rock-strewn banks of catalina at low tide , but it was too steep .
basin	pool	NN	basin	pool	10	10	how long it takes to empty the 95-by-104-foot , marble-lined basin that 's as much as 10 feet deep depends on how much irrigation is needed , franco said .	it 's unclear how long it will be before the pool , which is 95 by 104 feet long and 10 feet deep , is fully emptied out .
remodel	remodeling	NN	remodel	remodeling	15	14	low-flow restroom fixtures were installed at the hearst castle visitor center during the most recent remodel , he said , but when you have 700,000 visitors annually , it 's still going to use a lot of water .	low-flow toilets were installed at the hearst castle visitor center during the most recent remodeling , he said .
pretext	excuse	NN	pretext	excuse	27	19	washington edward snowden is a courageous american hero and will be remembered as one long after the '' war on terror '' is replaced by some other pretext for violating americans ' constitutional rights and the rest of the world 's national sovereignty , privacy and , sometimes , security .	he will be remembered as one long after the '' war on terror '' is replaced by some other excuse for violating americans ' rights and the rest of the world 's rights , privacy and , sometimes , security .
data-gathering	gathering	NN	data-gathering	gathering	11	2	however , there is a mountain of evidence that this massive data-gathering is in fact being used against citizens who are involved in constitutionally protected activity , such as political organizing and public education .	this widespread gathering of our personal information is in fact being used against ordinary citizens who are simply involved in activities that are protected by our constitution .
remain	stand	VBP	remain	stand	2	3	but outliers remain , according to a stateline analysis , and many are the same problem states from 1959 : mississippi still has the nation 's highest poverty rate , at 22 percent .	but some states stand out , according to a stateline analysis , and many are the same problem states from 1959 : mississippi still has the nation 's highest poverty rate , at 22 percent .
disorder	problem	NN	disorder	problem	12	12	this told them that he was suffering from an extremely rare kidney disorder and , armed with that knowledge , his doctors were able to tailor the treatment for his condition .	this told them that he was suffering from an extremely rare kidney problem .
drugstore	pharmacy	NN	drugstore	pharmacy	8	8	washington cvs caremark , the nation 's second-largest drugstore chain , plans to stop selling cigarettes and other tobacco products at its more than 7,600 retail stores by oct .	washington cvs caremark will become the first national pharmacy company to stop selling cigarettes and other tobacco products .
stop	cease	VB	stop	cease	13	14	washington cvs caremark , the nation 's second-largest drugstore chain , plans to stop selling cigarettes and other tobacco products at its more than 7,600 retail stores by oct .	cvs , the nation 's second-largest drugstore chain , announced wednesday that it would cease tobacco sales at its more than 7,600 retail stores by oct .
recovery	return	NN	recovery	return	21	25	scholars said the new data , which gauged movement between july 2012 and july 2013 , showed only feeble signs of recovery .	but scholars said the new census bureau data , which gauged movement between july 2012 and july 2013 , showed only feeble signs of a return to normal levels of migration .
people	citizens	NNS	people	citizen	16	11	the entire northeastern region , for example , was estimated to have lost more than 208,000 people to other parts of the country , yet gained more than 227,000 foreign immigrants in the most recent year .	for example , the entire northeastern region lost more than 208,000 citizens .
way	sense	NN	way	sense	1	21	one way to help rectify that , parliament 's spending watchdog committee said , would be for the queen 's financial advisers to show a little more business savvy for example , by throwing open the doors of buckingham palace to ticket-buying lookie-loos for more of the year than just the summer months to which such visits are currently limited .	parliament 's spending watchdog committee said the people responsible for handling the queen 's money should show a little more business sense .
put	asked	VBN	put	ask	19	13	several dozen parents attended the meeting , and some said the report was vague and that the cafeteria worker put on leave was being scapegoated , the salt lake tribune reported .	some said the report was vague and that the cafeteria worker who was asked not to come to work was being unfairly blamed .
restrict	limit	VB	restrict	limit	12	12	these proposals run the gamut , such as figuring out how to restrict the amount of dangerous '' space junk '' shed by spacecraft and finding a way to coordinate traffic in earth 's orbit .	there are , for example , attempts to figure out how to limit the amount of dangerous '' space junk '' shed by spacecraft .
regulating	regulation	NN	regulating	regulation	9	0	and the question is who should be doing the regulating , '' said mike gold , a top executive with bigelow aerospace of nevada , which builds inflatable space habitats .	regulation is unavoidable , said mike gold , a top executive with bigelow aerospace of nevada , which builds inflatable space dwellings .
decal	sticker	NN	decal	sticker	28	25	the x games champion pushed hard for the inclusion of the sport in the olympics , and her teammates planned on honoring her in sochi with a helmet decal .	the x games champion pushed hard to get the sport at the olympics , and her teammates planned on honoring her in sochi with a sticker on their helmets .
expedite	speed	VB	expedite	speed	1	1	to expedite salt deliveries , the department waived federal restrictions on hours for salt truck drivers to allow them to work as long as needed until the emergency is over .	to speed up salt deliveries , the department waived federal limits on hours for salt truck drivers to allow them to work as long as needed until the emergency is over .
spot	point	NN	spot	point	29	19	the village site borders a rocky outcropping that his team has concluded was the original natural shoreline at the confluence of biscayne bay and the miami river , a spot long ago occluded by fill .	the village site borders a rocky outcropping that his team has concluded was the original shoreline at the meeting point of biscayne bay and the miami river .
long-vacant	vacant	JJ	long-vacant	vacant	9	9	the tequesta village site covers roughly half of a long-vacant , two-acre city block on the north side of the river where the developer , mdm development group , plans to build movie theaters , restaurants and a 34-story hotel .	the tequesta village site covers roughly half of a vacant , two-acre city block on the north side of the river .
revisit	rethink	VB	revisit	rethink	13	7	state of florida and miami-dade county historic-preservation officials are pressing the city to revisit the met square plans to consider possible alternatives that would salvage a portion of or even the full archaeological site .	historic-preservation officials are pressing the city to rethink the met square plans .
dilemma	predicament	NN	dilemma	predicament	1	1	the dilemma echoes the battle to save the miami circle , a set of postholes discovered by carr in 1998 on the south bank of the river , opposite the recently uncovered tequesta village site .	the predicament echoes the battle to save the miami circle , a set of postholes discovered by carr in 1998 on the south bank of the miami river , opposite the recently uncovered tequesta village site .
temperate	moderate	JJ	temperate	moderate	26	17	the findings , published in the journal plos biology , show that the tropics have been a major source of biodiversity for the cooler , more temperate regions of the planet .	they show that the tropics have been a major source of biodiversity for the cooler , more moderate regions of the planet .
climate	environment	NN	climate	environment	12	10	it could be , to name a few ideas , because the climate in the tropics is more stable , because there are more ecological niches available to newly emerging species , or because of all that energy in the form of year-round direct sunlight .	another reason could be because the tropical region is an environment that can host newly emerging species .
ballet-like	ballet	JJ	ballet-like	ballet	26	4	their interpretation of '' swan lake , '' full of poses and movements that turned the arena into moscow 's famous bolshoi theater , was utterly ballet-like and seamless .	their take on the ballet music of '' swan lake '' made the ice rink feel like a theater .
pace	beat	NN	pace	beat	20	15	the most striking feature of the way they performed it was a feeling for tempo , their skating changes of pace matching the shifts in the music 's speed .	the most striking feature of the way they performed it was a feeling for the beat .
distress	hardship	NN	distress	hardship	3	3	theories include economic distress , dysfunctional families , absent and preoccupied busy parents , technology obsession , social media and extraordinary pressure on kids to excel .	theories include economic hardship , dysfunctional families , absent and preoccupied parents , also obsession with technology , social media like facebook , and the extraordinary pressure on kids to excel .
statistics	data	NNS	statistics	datum	0	0	statistics from the national institute of mental health indicate that the incidence of teen mental illness was stable for 10 years through the early 2000s , the latest data available .	data from the national institute of mental health indicate that teen mental illness was stable for a decade through the early 2000s , according to the latest numbers available .
juvenile	minor	JJ	juvenile	minor	5	5	in one case , a juvenile who admitted shooting a whooping crane was charged in indiana state court with a misdemeanor and eventually fined $ 1 , a punishment that rankled animal rights groups .	in one case , a minor who admitted shooting a whooping crane was charged in indiana state court and eventually fined $ 1 , a punishment that rankled animal rights groups .
phrase	word	NN	phrase	word	34	31	lester young , the lead saxophonist in count basie 's orchestra and soul mate to billie holiday , was giving voice to what would become an american and global obsession for cool with a phrase rooted in jazz slang .	lester young , the lead saxophonist in count basie 's orchestra and soul mate to singer billie holiday , was just throwing out some jazz slang when he started using the word cool , but soon everyone else was using the word .
rebellion	rebel	NN	rebellion	rebel	20	18	to be included , a person had to have an original artistic vision with a signature style , represent cultural rebellion or transgression , have instant visual recognition , and have a recognized and lasting cultural legacy .	to be included , a person had to have an original artistic vision with a signature style , rebel against society , be instantly recognizable , and have a lasting cultural effect .
ease	relax	VB	ease	relax	33	24	making matters worse , arch-rival sweden won both races , racking up such a big lead in sunday 's men 's competition that marcus hellner , the swedish anchor , had time to ease up and carry a flag down the homestretch .	the swedes had such a big lead in sunday 's men 's race that marcus hellner , the swedish anchor , had time to relax and carry his country 's blue and yellow flag down the last part of the race .
association	partnership	NN	association	partnership	30	12	ukrainians in favor of closer ties with the west , most of them urbanites , have been demanding yanukovich 's resignation since he unilaterally decided in november to scrap an association accord between ukraine and the european union in favor of maintaining economic integration with russia .	yanukovich ended an agreement between ukraine and the european union , a partnership of 28 european countries .
minister	president	NN	minister	president	10	4	opposition politician arseny yatsenyuk , an economist and former foreign minister , appealed to yanukovich to spare ukraine from becoming '' a country covered with blood '' by pulling back security forces and adhering to a cease-fire if he wanted dialogue with his opponents .	he called on the president to pull back security forces and adhere to a cease-fire if he wanted dialogue with his opponents .
allegiance	loyalty	NN	allegiance	loyalty	12	21	protesters see the russian bailout as an attempt to buy yanukovich 's allegiance to the eurasian union , a moscow-directed economic alliance that russian president vladimir putin has been touting as an alternative to the european union .	russia has promised ukraine $ 15 billion in aid , which the opposition sees as an attempt to buy yanukovich 's loyalty and an effort to steer ukraine into joining the eurasian union .
piece	bit	NN	piece	bit	62	17	sotheby 's put its works on public display in london thursday , and there was a distinct scarlet hue to the star lots gerhard richter 's cadmium-colored abstract '' wall , '' expected to sell for at least 15 million pounds ; an andy warhol portrait of chairman mao valued at 5 million pounds to 7 million pounds ; a vivid red piece in molten plastic by alberto burri that could break the 3-million-pound record for the italian artist .	sotheby 's put its pieces on public display in london thursday , and there was quite a bit of red visible in the top-tier works .
episode	event	NN	episode	event	29	12	but the florida supreme court could reduce the total sentence to 20 years if it decides that consecutive sentences are not appropriate when the sentences arise from one criminal episode , said weinstein .	it could decide that separate sentences should not come from one criminal event , said weinstein .
reproduction	breeding	NN	reproduction	breeding	30	13	simmons said the san diego zoo places animals that are in '' non-breeding situations '' with animals that mimic groups found in nature , but that would not result in reproduction , including single-gender '' bachelor groups '' and groups with animals past reproductive age .	simmons said the san diego zoo places animals in select groups to prevent breeding .
gaming	gambling	NN	gaming	gambling	18	14	it 's good news for them : after seven straight years of sinking profits , the center for gaming research at the university of nevada predicts that if brick-and-mortar casinos continue to shrink at the same rate as this year , their online presence will have to double to make up for lost revenue .	it found that if this continues , casinos will have to double their online gambling websites to make up for the money their casino houses are losing .
confiscate	seize	VB	confiscate	seize	18	18	under the new strategy , if someone is caught trying to sell ivory items , the government will confiscate them unless sellers can provide documentation that they are legal .	under the new rules , if someone is caught trying to sell ivory items , the government will seize them unless sellers can provide proof that they are legal .
get	come	VB	get	come	11	6	he said the city of winner and surrounding tripp county would get a windfall of roughly $ 900,000 a year from construction workers patronizing the town 's restaurants , bars and its recently upgraded digital theater .	roughly $ 900,000 a year would come from construction workers spending money in the town 's restaurants , bars and its movie theater .
hazard	risk	NN	hazard	risk	29	12	in south dakota , the proposed line would not go through any of the state 's nine reservations , but opponents say its close proximity would still pose a hazard .	but , opponents say it 's close enough to still pose a risk .
trajectory	path	NN	trajectory	path	22	21	in the next few years , the way they perceive themselves as smart , average , college-bound or not may change the trajectory of their educational careers .	in the next few years , how they perceive themselves as smart , average , college-bound or not may change the path of their educational careers .
incarceration	prison	NN	incarceration	prison	20	12	at the same time , countless studies have linked better job prospects , higher salaries , even lower rates of incarceration with at least some level of postsecondary education or credential .	studies have linked better job prospects , higher salaries , even lower prison rates with at least some level of college education .
high-school	school	NN	high-school	school	40	27	shepard thought that highlighting the path to college was especially needed in green bay , a gritty industrial town where only about 21 percent of adults have a bachelor 's degree or higher , and the rate of college-going among high-school graduates is low .	only about 21 percent of adults in the wisconsin town have a bachelor 's degree or higher , and the rate of the college bound among high school graduates is low .
percentage	percent	NN	percentage	percent	21	7	according to the national center for education statistics -lrb- nces -rrb- , washington is 46th among the 50 states for the percentage of students who enroll full time in college right after high-school graduation .	washington is ranked 46th nationally in the percent of students who go to college full time after high school .
collectively	together	RB	collectively	together	3	5	the existing clubs collectively serve about 1,400 urban students a small segment of the school population , but one that 's exposed to intensive mentoring , travel opportunities and community service .	the clubs around the country together serve about 1,400 inner city students , and that 's not many .
alumnus	graduate	NN	alumnus	graduate	23	3	you go to germany or new york , you 'll see alpha boys , '' said winston '' sparrow '' martin , an alumnus who has provided a musical foundation to many boys as the school 's longtime band instructor while forging his own international recording career .	he is a graduate who has provided a musical foundation to many boys as the school 's longtime band instructor while forging his own international recording career .
railcar	car	NN	railcar	car	1	2	this railcar is a physical piece of history '' from america 's long years of segregation , '' and that is rare , said peter claussen , chairman and ceo of gulf &amp; amp ; ohio railways .	the rail car is one of the physical reminders from america 's long years of segregation , and those objects are rare , said peter claussen .
penitentiary	prison	NN	penitentiary	prison	15	14	there 's also a 21-foot concrete guard tower from angola prison , the louisiana state penitentiary , that was built in the 1930s and to bunch serves as a powerful symbol of the oppression of african-americans .	the museum includes a 21-foot concrete guard tower from angola , the louisiana state prison that was built in the 1930s .
reinstitute	re-institute	VB	reinstitute	re-institute	31	22	many were rounded up as vagrants and , in a practice of '' convict-leasing '' that began at the turn of the 20th century , '' it became a way to reinstitute slavery , '' bunch said , explaining that prisoners were leased out to work for residents .	the practice of '' convict-leasing , '' which began at the turn of the 20th century , '' became a way to re-institute slavery , '' bunch said .
rare	precious	JJ	rare	precious	16	18	he said some of the tools buried with the boy were made of elk antlers a rare commodity at the time and dated to the beginning of the culture about 13,000 years ago .	he said some of the tools buried with the boy were made of elk antlers , then a precious material .
good	effective	JJ	good	effective	38	13	obama announced a program called my brother 's keeper and ordered the federal government to focus resources on programs that had been proved to help minority young men stay out of trouble , succeed in school and land good jobs .	a key part of its mission is to identify programs that have been effective in aiding young minority men .
successful	effective	JJ	successful	effective	16	13	a key part of its mission is to identify and support existing programs that have been successful in helping young minority men stay out of trouble , succeed in school or land good jobs .	a key part of its mission is to identify programs that have been effective in aiding young minority men .
vault	jump	NN	vault	jump	14	8	at the brookline class , instructors set up metal bars they called scaffolding and vault boxes in the gym , teaching students how to walk on or hurtle over balance beams and lift , leap or weave their way through whatever else was in their path .	they teach students how to walk on or jump over balance beams and lift , leap or weave their way through whatever else is in their path .
brand-new	new	JJ	brand-new	new	4	7	los angeles using a brand-new technique , scientists using nasa 's kepler space telescope have found 715 confirmed planets huddling around 305 stars , nearly triple kepler 's previous total of 246 confirmed planets in the milky way galaxy .	los angeles by working in a brand new way , scientists using nasa 's kepler space telescope have found 715 confirmed planets huddling around 305 stars .
transition	move	NN	transition	move	3	3	this highlights the transition away from the massive gas giants that characterized kepler 's first finds and more toward planets that are in the right size range to potentially host life as we know it .	this highlights the move away from the massive gas giants like jupiter that characterized kepler 's first finds .
irate	furious	JJ	irate	furious	28	26	by the end of that night , 65 years ago this month , the announcer would still be alive but at least six others would be dead as irate mobs discovered they had fallen for a radio hoax and embarrassed security forces either refused , or were unable , to come to the broadcasters ' aid .	by the end of that night , 65 years ago , the announcer would still be alive but at least six others would be dead as furious mobs discovered they had fallen for a prank .
usually	normally	RB	usually	normally	19	0	when it comes to squeezing tiny , individual living cells out into orderly patterns for lab experiments , scientists usually use inkjet printers , but those have their limits .	normally when it comes to squeezing tiny , individual living cells out into orderly patterns for lab experiments , scientists use inkjet printers .
novel	new	JJ	novel	new	7	4	they found that their ancient and yet novel process could be done as quickly as in half an hour and with close to 100 percent of cells surviving undamaged .	they found that the new process could be done as quickly as in half an hour and with close to 100 percent of cells surviving undamaged .
crucial	critical	JJ	crucial	critical	7	7	scientists have theorized that one of the crucial early events occurred when an asteroid roughly the size of mars struck a glancing blow to the earth , vaporizing the mantle and crust .	scientists have theorized that one of the critical early events occurred when an asteroid roughly the size of mars struck a glancing blow to the earth , vaporizing the mantle and crust .
personnel	agents	NNS	personnel	agent	7	7	the federal law enforcement official said fbi personnel will assist in reviewing video of the airport in kuala lumpur for images of passengers at the ticket counter , the security sections and the boarding area .	the federal law enforcement official said fbi agents will assist the investigation .
reality	fact	NN	reality	fact	1	1	in reality , the staples require vastly different amounts of water : 157 gallons were required to make a pound of sugar ; 299 gallons for a pound of rice ; 606 gallons for a pound of cheese and a whopping 2,264 gallons for a pound of coffee .	in fact , each require vastly different amounts of water : 157 gallons were required to make a pound of sugar ; 299 gallons for a pound of rice ; 606 gallons for a pound of cheese and a whopping 2,264 gallons for a pound of coffee .
music	song	NN	music	song	7	5	the so-called hyper-hedonic , characterized by high music appreciation , brought in what could only be described as an eclectic mix -lrb- artists with multiple cuts included carlos santana , paco de lucia and beethoven ; pink floyd , deep purple and genesis were wedged in among beirut , rihanna and movie score composer clint mansell , the former front man for pop will eat itself -rrb- .	artists with more than one song included carlos santana , paco de lucia and beethoven .
silver	money	NN	silver	money	16	5	now , capitalizing on consumers ' fear of germs , companies are adding tiny , powerful silver particles to cutting boards , underwear , yoga mats , running shirts , socks and an expanding array of other '' antibacterial '' goods .	now , companies are making money off the fear of germs .
long	much	JJ	long	much	36	9	but some scientists and environmental watchdog groups say putting nanosilver to widespread use may pose risks , as no one knows how chronic exposure to the particles may affect human health or the ecosystem in the long run .	but some scientists and environmental groups say using so much nanosilver may have risks .
exemption	exception	NN	exemption	exception	8	8	but council president herb wesson balked at the exemption , telling lawmakers that he has been hooked on cigarettes for nearly 40 years and will probably die because of them .	but council president herb wesson balked at the exception , telling lawmakers that he has been hooked on cigarettes for nearly 40 years and will probably die because of them .
mental	psychological	JJ	mental	psychological	10	10	malaysian police have already said they are looking at the mental state , family life and connections of pilot zaharie ahmad shah , 53 , and co-pilot fariq abdul hamid , 27 .	malaysian police have already said they are looking at the psychological state , family life and connections of pilot zaharie ahmad shah , 53 , and co-pilot fariq abdul hamid , 27 .
constant	regular	JJ	constant	regular	20	11	in the rings of ancient and gnarled trees , a team of scientists has found evidence of a period of constant warmth and wetness in mongolia between 1211 and 1225 .	a team of scientists has found evidence of a period of regular warmth and wetness in mongolia between 1211 and 1225 .
initial	original	JJ	initial	original	4	5	those samples confirmed the initial findings : the expansion of the mongol empire coincided with what the trees recorded as a warmer and wetter climate than usual .	those samples agreed with the original findings : the spread of the mongol empire happened along with what the trees recorded as a warmer and wetter climate than usual .
sex	gender	NN	sex	gender	25	11	doublesex happens to be the signaling gene that selectively drives the sexual divide in certain cells though it is not the one that actually determines sex for the organism .	doublesex happens to be the signaling gene that selectively drives the gender divide in certain cells though it is not the one that actually determines gender for the organism .
obtain	provide	VB	obtain	provide	7	7	etta arviso , who is lobbying to obtain better housing for several code talkers , said veterans tell her they face too much red tape in the application process .	etta arviso works to pressure leaders to provide housing for several code talkers .
office	agency	NN	office	agency	23	2	scientists at the national institutes of health are advising the simons on how to set up a patient registry , and nih 's office of rare diseases research has posted on its web site a youtube video in which elana simon and a fellow survivor explain why to get involved .	the government agency is advising the simons on how to develop a list of people with the disease .
mutation	change	NN	mutation	change	28	14	at the collaborating new york genome center , which genetically mapped the samples , co-author nicolas robine said a program called fusioncatcher ultimately zeroed in on the weird mutation .	the new york genome center mapped the samples and zeroed in on the weird change in the gene , co-author nicolas robine said .
give	pay	VB	give	pay	17	7	quicken loans and billionaire warren buffett , one of the richest men in the world , would give $ 1 billion to anyone who correctly predicted the winner of every game in the ncaa men 's basketball tournament .	quicken loans and billionaire warren buffett would pay over $ 1 billion to anyone who correctly predicted the winner of every game in the ncaa march madness men 's basketball tournament .
challenge	contest	NN	challenge	contest	6	4	chartier said the buffett billion dollar challenge has also caught the attention of someone closer to home his 11-year-old son , noah , has insisted on having dad help with his own bracket .	chartier said the buffett contest has also caught the attention of someone closer to home .
salary	paycheck	NN	salary	paycheck	6	17	but she 's grateful that the salary , no matter how small , gave her the means to escape her home village and the fate of her schoolgirl friends .	mollah knows that she wo n't get rich ; she sends nearly half of her $ 20-a-week paycheck home to her family .
over-exploited	overexploited	JJ	over-exploited	overexploited	23	16	despite the horrific industrial accidents and accusations of labor abuses such as forced workweeks of 80 hours the picture of the underpaid and over-exploited garment worker gets more complicated when compared to other options available to women in this poor , traditional muslim society .	despite the horrific accidents and accusations of labor abuses , the picture of the underpaid and overexploited garment worker gets more complicated .
shore	coast	NN	shore	coast	22	25	scientists last year published this grim scenario for a massive rupture along the cascadia fault system , which runs 700 miles off shore from northern california to vancouver island .	last year , scientists studied the possible effects of a huge earthquake coming from the cascadia fault system , which sits 700 miles off the coast of northern california .
conundrum	mystery	NN	conundrum	mystery	20	11	on tuesday , researchers at a meeting of the american chemical society in dallas said they had solved the confection conundrum : specific chocolate-loving microbes in the gut convert an otherwise indigestible portion of the candy into anti-inflammatory compounds , they said .	on tuesday , researchers announced that they had solved the chocolate mystery : specific chocolate-loving microbes in the gut convert an otherwise indigestible portion of the candy into anti-inflammatory compounds that is , into mixtures of substances that reduce pain and swelling .
candy	chocolate	NN	candy	chocolate	35	10	on tuesday , researchers at a meeting of the american chemical society in dallas said they had solved the confection conundrum : specific chocolate-loving microbes in the gut convert an otherwise indigestible portion of the candy into anti-inflammatory compounds , they said .	on tuesday , researchers announced that they had solved the chocolate mystery : it seems that certain chocolate-loving microbes in the gut are responsible .
convert	turn	VBP	convert	turn	28	1	on tuesday , researchers at a meeting of the american chemical society in dallas said they had solved the confection conundrum : specific chocolate-loving microbes in the gut convert an otherwise indigestible portion of the candy into anti-inflammatory compounds , they said .	they turn an otherwise indigestible portion of the candy into something useful : anti-inflammatory compounds that is , mixtures of substances that reduce pain and swelling in the body .
report	information	NN	report	information	32	5	loveless based his conclusions on numbers from three surveys : a student survey that was part of the national assessment of educational progress , also known as naep or the nation 's report card ; a metlife annual survey of parents and students ; and a survey of college freshmen by the higher education research institute at ucla .	loveless based his conclusions on information from three surveys : a national assessment of education progress -lrb- naep -rrb- student survey , a metlife annual survey of parents and students , and a ucla survey of college freshmen .
information	report	NN	information	report	5	3	loveless based his conclusions on information from three surveys : a national assessment of education progress -lrb- naep -rrb- student survey , a metlife annual survey of parents and students , and a ucla survey of college freshmen .	loveless based his report on three surveys : a student survey , a survey of parents and students , and a survey of college freshmen .
massive	enormous	JJ	massive	enormous	20	2	with no space shuttle program , there would be no need for more than a million space shuttle parts the massive engines that jettisoned the orbiters above earth , the machinery used to safely move them , the specialized nuts and bolts that attached them to the external tank .	there were enormous engines that powered the orbiters above earth , the machinery used to safely move them , the specialized nuts and bolts that attached them to a fuel tank .
plead	beg	VBP	plead	beg	1	1	they plead with principals to take them into lebanon 's overcrowded public schools , send them to makeshift classes in tents and offer them to mosques to study with sheiks .	they beg principals to take them into lebanon 's overcrowded public schools , send them to makeshift classes in tents , and offer them to mosques to study with sheiks , or religious leaders .
beg	plead	VBP	beg	plead	1	1	they beg principals to take them into lebanon 's overcrowded public schools , send them to makeshift classes in tents , and offer them to mosques to study with sheiks , or religious leaders .	they plead with principals to take them into lebanon 's overcrowded public schools .
light	view	NN	light	view	7	1	by looking at the sky in infrared light , astronomers can cut through clouds of obscuring interstellar dust , revealing stars , previously hidden stellar nurseries , proto stars , bubbles , jets , bow shocks , and nebulae that ca n't be seen in visible light .	this view allows them to study much that ca n't be seen in visible light : previously hidden stellar nurseries and nebulae , proto stars , and interstellar bubbles and jets .
astronomy	astronomer	NN	astronomy	astronomer	41	29	scientists can now clearly examine the structure of the milky way how many spiral arms it has , where they are and how far out they extend , said edward churchwell , a university of wisconsin , madison professor emeritus of astronomy who was involved in compiling the new picture , which shows a 2-degree-wide band of the galactic plane .	scientists can now clearly examine the structure of the milky way how many spiral arms it has , where they are and how far out they extend , said astronomer edward churchwell , who was involved in compiling the new picture .
way	shape	NN	way	shape	10	11	scientists can now clearly examine the structure of the milky way how many spiral arms it has , where they are and how far out they extend , said edward churchwell , a university of wisconsin , madison professor emeritus of astronomy who was involved in compiling the new picture , which shows a 2-degree-wide band of the galactic plane .	it has parts that extend out like arms in a spiral shape .
mentor	instructor	NN	mentor	instructor	28	11	bogota , colombia in the parking garage of a small apartment building across the highway from bogota 's el campin soccer stadium , a young man and his mentor practice bullfighting techniques under the light of an atrium .	bogota , colombia andres del castillo practices bullfighting moves with his instructor in the parking garage of a small apartment building .
evolve	change	VB	evolve	change	9	7	the 77-year-old elder rincon 's goal is to '' evolve '' the art of bullfighting with new expressions and movements that have never been tried before , much as when cesar rincon enamored audiences worldwide .	the 77-year-old rincon 's goal is to change the art of bullfighting with new expressions and movements that have never been tried before .
eradicate	eliminate	VB	eradicate	eliminate	30	15	noting that chemical weapons were used to '' devastating effect '' on flanders field , obama said that today , in syria and elsewhere , the world still struggles to eradicate their use .	he emphasized that today , in syria and elsewhere , the world still struggles to eliminate their use .
effect	end	NN	effect	end	9	17	noting that chemical weapons were used to '' devastating effect '' on flanders field , obama said that today , in syria and elsewhere , the world still struggles to eradicate their use .	he emphasized that today , in syria and elsewhere , the world still struggles to put an end to their use .
hillside	hill	NN	hillside	hill	23	3	he has a half-dozen manila folders stuffed with maps , slides , models and drawings , all telling the story of an unstable hillside that has defied efforts to shore it up .	he knows the hill 's history , having a half-dozen folders stuffed with maps , slides , models and drawings done since the 1950s .
landslide	mudslide	NN	landslide	mudslide	23	22	that 's why he could not believe what he saw in 2006 , when he returned to the hill within weeks of a landslide that crashed into and plugged the north fork of the stillaguamish river , creating a new channel that threatened homes on a street called steelhead drive .	that 's why he could not believe what he saw in 2006 when he returned to the hill within weeks of a mudslide that threatened homes on steelhead drive .
mudslide	landslide	NN	mudslide	landslide	22	20	that 's why he could not believe what he saw in 2006 when he returned to the hill within weeks of a mudslide that threatened homes on steelhead drive .	that 's why he could not believe what he saw in 2006 when he visited the hill weeks after a landslide .
realistic	unrealistic	JJ	realistic	unrealistic	19	5	wood said nobody was warned about the likelihood of a massive landslide , but he thought it was n't realistic for people to think the government could prevent the disaster .	but he said it was unrealistic for people to think the government could prevent the disaster .
taller	larger	JJR	taller	larger	15	6	saturday 's monster slide left a scarp of nearly 600 feet , about nine times taller than the 1949 slide and four times taller than the one in 1967 .	saturday 's monster slide was much larger , leaving a scarp of nearly 600 feet .
restoration	revival	NN	restoration	revival	15	16	the exxon valdez oil spill trustee council , a state-federal group set up to oversee restoration of prince william sound , considers the pink and sockeye salmon to be recovered , as well as the bald eagles and harbor seals .	the exxon valdez oil spill trustee council , a state-federal group set up to oversee the revival of prince william sound , considers the pink and sockeye salmon to be recovered , as well as the bald eagles and harbor seals .
block	neighborhood	NN	block	neighborhood	21	13	their historic filipinotown '' doll factory , '' a former dairy slathered in pink and black paint , sits on a block that may be slated for new development .	their headquarters at the '' doll factory '' in la 's historic filipinotown neighborhood may be knocked down .
block	building	NN	block	building	21	12	their historic filipinotown '' doll factory , '' a former dairy slathered in pink and black paint , sits on a block that may be slated for new development .	their home base is in the '' doll factory , '' a building in la 's historic filipinotown neighborhood , but the building may be knocked down .
resurgence	revival	NN	resurgence	revival	14	5	derby was like pro wrestling in the 1970s , but it 's had a resurgence that has turned it into much more of a real sport , he said .	but roller derby had a revival that has turned it into much more of a real sport , he said .
much	well	RB	much	well	27	5	college sports are booming , thanks to gargantuan tv contracts and the increasing use of athletics as a marketing tool , and women 's teams are enjoying much of the bounty .	college sports are doing very well thanks to money from tv contracts and the increasing use of athletics as a marketing tool to attract new students .
tall	high	JJ	tall	high	24	2	she joined the chicago rowing foundation her freshman year , and while she enjoyed the teamwork , she knew that at only 5 feet tall , she did n't stand much of a chance against competitors who were often a foot taller .	as a high school freshman , she enjoyed the teamwork of the sport , but thought she was too short to compete against taller , stronger girls .
necessarily	always	RB	necessarily	always	6	4	the cervical ribs themselves are n't necessarily dangerous , but they tend to appear in animals that failed to develop normally during the early stages of pregnancy , and other problems associated with abnormal development can be fatal .	the ribs do n't always hurt the animal .
owner	restaurant-owner	NN	owner	restaurant-owner	21	0	jen lin-liu , author of '' on the noodle road : from beijing to rome with love and pasta '' and owner of black sesame kitchen in beijing , said it 's a reflection of china 's past poverty mixed with relatively recent economic gains .	restaurant-owner jen lin-liu says the supersizing trend is a reflection of china 's past poverty , mixed with its recent economic gains .
take	steal	VB	take	steal	64	29	now , his mega-menus are made once a year at a top printing house in shenzhen , and theft is way down , '' though we did have one person come in with a suitcase and manage to get one that way , '' said dong , who will occasionally sell last season 's menus for $ 200 to those who really want to take one home .	now , his mega-menus are made once a year at a top printing house in shenzhen , and theft is way down their sheer size makes them difficult to steal .
last	last-minute	JJ	last	last-minute	23	9	miami cuban blogger yoani sanchez says her planned digital newspaper is just weeks away from its debut , with a dozen staffers getting last minute training and looking for novel ways to distribute the reports with text messages , emails and digital memory devices .	a dozen staffers of the online paper are getting last-minute training and looking for original ways to distribute the articles with text messages , emails and digital memory devices .
minute	last-minute	JJ	minute	last-minute	24	9	miami cuban blogger yoani sanchez says her planned digital newspaper is just weeks away from its debut , with a dozen staffers getting last minute training and looking for novel ways to distribute the reports with text messages , emails and digital memory devices .	a dozen staffers of the online paper are getting last-minute training and looking for original ways to distribute the articles with text messages , emails and digital memory devices .
newspaper	paper	NN	newspaper	paper	9	6	miami cuban blogger yoani sanchez says her planned digital newspaper is just weeks away from its debut , with a dozen staffers getting last minute training and looking for novel ways to distribute the reports with text messages , emails and digital memory devices .	a dozen staffers of the online paper are getting last-minute training and looking for original ways to distribute the articles with text messages , emails and digital memory devices .
further	more	RBR	further	more	20	6	other cubans believe that a change in venezuela could force the raul castro government to open the country 's doors further to private economic activity and perhaps even political freedoms , she said .	it promises to make the country more open to business with other countries .
tier	level	NN	tier	level	21	20	so while the uppermost teens on the social scale can '' afford '' to be nice , those in the next tier have to keep themselves there , faris said tuesday .	while the uppermost teens on the social scale can '' afford '' to be nice , those in the next level down have to keep themselves there , faris said tuesday .
deliver	send	VB	deliver	send	40	6	by comparison , it costs about $ 200 to $ 250 to distribute digital hard drives to movie theaters , and significantly less at least half the cost of shipping hard drives around the country by truck and plane to deliver content via satellite .	it costs about $ 250 to send out hard drives .
feral-cat	feral	JJ	feral-cat	feral	14	16	backers call it the best available option to compassionately deal with the nation 's feral-cat population , which the humane society of the united states estimates at about 50 million animals .	backers call it the best available option to compassionately deal with the nation 's 50 million feral cats .
penchant	fondness	NN	penchant	fondness	5	5	he first learned of his penchant for teaching while tutoring members of mit 's black student union , at a time many black students still did n't feel comfortable asking teachers for help , gates said .	he first learned of his fondness for teaching while tutoring members of mit 's black student union at a time many black students still did n't feel comfortable asking teachers for help , gates said .
big	wide	JJ	big	wide	5	5	motivated by the search for big expanses of land with abundant supplies of clean water , chinese are looking far afield to the united states , chile , brazil , russia , ukraine , bulgaria and australia .	motivated by the search for wide open land with abundant supplies of clean water , the chinese are looking far afield .
embrace	accept	VB	embrace	accept	19	20	nudged by local governments worried about water shortages , home builders and homeowners associations are showing increased willingness to embrace the drought-tolerant landscapes that more naturally suit california .	nudged by local governments worried about water shortages , home builders and homeowners associations are showing an increased willingness to accept the drought-tolerant landscapes that more naturally suit california .
inception	start	NN	inception	start	4	4	since the program 's inception , at least 500 homeowners have removed about 350,000 square feet of turf , saving an estimated 14 million gallons of water annually , brown said .	since the program 's start , at least 500 homeowners have removed about 350,000 square feet of turf .
d-san	san	JJ	d-san	san	35	22	but some associations have found ways to prevent homeowners from re-landscaping too much , for instance by requiring homeowners to maintain a certain portion of their yards as lawns , said assemblywoman lorena gonzalez , d-san diego .	but some associations still require homeowners to maintain a certain portion of their yards as lawns , said assemblywoman lorena gonzalez from san diego .
framework	set	NN	framework	set	5	15	to help develop an ethical framework for venturing into this unknown territory , the space agency asked the institute of medicine to convene a panel of experts to offer some helpful guidelines .	the space agency asked the institute of medicine -lrb- iom -rrb- to help develop a set of guidelines for venturing into this unknown territory .
dark-brown-skinned	dark	JJ	dark-brown-skinned	dark	24	2	but when brumfield , the director of a project empowering young girls , passed around a photograph of lupita nyong ' o , the dark-brown-skinned actress who sports an extra-short natural , the girls were silent for a moment .	she has dark skin .
embrace	adopt	VB	embrace	adopt	3	3	encouraging people to embrace short hair has long been a challenge in a media environment overflowing with images of women whose hair is '' bouncing and behaving , '' said aeleise jana , 30 , a chicago hair stylist who wears her hair short and specializes in cutting natural hair .	encouraging people to adopt short hair is hard , because television and magazines are overflowing with images of women whose hair is '' bouncing and behaving , '' said aeleise jana .
prospect	chance	NN	prospect	chance	25	2	she said that by the time her clients reach her , many have decided they 've had enough of chemicals and weaves and their only prospect for a healthy head of hair is to cut most of it off .	their only chance for a healthy head of hair is to cut most of it off .
certain	several	JJ	certain	several	27	12	rork 's organization , dog is my copilot , is among groups around the country that transport dogs by cars and planes to combat an overabundance of certain breeds in areas , a problem that often results in animal euthanasia .	rork 's organization , dog is my copilot , is one of several groups around the country that take dogs by car and plane from one state to another .
embody	symbolize	VBP	embody	symbolize	13	13	and a generation of young people who grew up after the mass killings embody the hope of a new breed of rwandans who identify not by ethnicity but by nationhood .	and a generation of young people who grew up after the mass killings symbolize the hope of a new breed of rwandans who identify not by ethnicity but by nationhood .
greatest	worst	JJS	greatest	worst	14	17	rwanda has made stunning progress since what was one of the 20th century 's greatest crimes , when more than 800,000 tutsis and moderate hutus were slaughtered by hutu extremists .	in 1994 , hutus killed more than 800,000 tutsis and even some hutus in one of the worst crimes of the past 100 years .
prosecute	try	VB	prosecute	try	16	11	in 2002 , the rome statute was established , setting up the international criminal court to prosecute individuals for , among other charges , genocide and crimes against humanity .	in 2002 , the international criminal court was set up to try individuals for , among other charges , genocide and crimes against humanity .
deployment	rollout	NN	deployment	rollout	18	6	but they say progress on arresting school violence nationwide has been hamstrung by a lack of funding , deployment of school-safety programs that have n't worked and a failure to properly train school staff and students .	at the same time , the rollout of school-safety programs has n't worked and schools have failed to properly train staff and students .
mental-health	mental	JJ	mental-health	mental	30	12	steven berkowitz , who co-chairs the american academy of child and adolescent psychiatry 's disaster and trauma committee , said politicians often follow school tragedies with speeches about dealing with mental-health issues but do n't follow up with legislation or financial commitments .	he said politicians often follow school tragedies with speeches about dealing with mental health .
facet	aspect	NN	facet	aspect	18	16	mcalpin 's son , sherman , calls his father 's history-making stint at the white house just one facet of a life well-lived , including serving as the president of the naacp chapter in louisville , ky .	mcalpin 's son , sherman , calls his father 's history-making white house assignment just one aspect of a life well-lived .
civilian	civil	JJ	civilian	civil	37	8	three years into syria 's conflict , the cacophony of war has become a familiar companion to daily life here in the country 's largest city , the sad soundtrack to its gradual demolition and a shrinking civilian population struggling to survive .	it is almost three years into syria 's civil war .
stylus	pen	NN	stylus	pen	28	28	that 's because the term pysanky comes from the verb pysaty , which means '' to write , '' and because the wax is applied with a writing stylus called a kistka .	that 's because the term pysanky comes from the verb pysaty , meaning '' to write , '' and because the wax is applied with a sort of pen called a kistka .
pass	spend	VB	pass	spend	40	16	every year , hundreds of millions of monarch butterflies each so light that 50 together weigh barely an ounce find their way on what may be the world 's longest insect migration , traveling the length of north america to pass the winter in central mexico .	every year , hundreds of millions of monarch butterflies fly the length of north america to spend the winter in mexico .
rampant	runaway	JJ	rampant	runaway	12	11	yet the great monarch migration is in peril , a victim of rampant herbicide use in faraway corn and soybean fields , extreme weather , a tiny microbial pathogen and deforestation .	yet the great monarch butterfly migration is in danger because of runaway use of weed killers , extreme weather , and deforestation .
peril	danger	NN	peril	danger	7	8	yet the great monarch migration is in peril , a victim of rampant herbicide use in faraway corn and soybean fields , extreme weather , a tiny microbial pathogen and deforestation .	yet the great monarch butterfly migration is in danger because of runaway use of weed killers , extreme weather , and deforestation .
deploy	make	VB	deploy	make	15	4	searchers operating more than 1,300 miles off the western coast of australia had hesitated to deploy the sub , hoping to further narrow the search area based on acoustic signals transmitted by beacons on the plane 's two black boxes .	they were hoping to make the search area smaller .
compensation	payment	NN	compensation	payment	12	12	minneapolis another group of former nhl players has joined the fight for compensation for head injuries they say they incurred while playing , while at the same time targeting the violence of the game that they believe brought about those injuries .	minneapolis more national hockey league players have joined the legal fight for payment for head injuries they say they suffered while playing .
argument	case	NN	argument	case	1	5	one argument that tries to separate the nfl litigation from the nhl case is that by engaging in fighting , players willfully take on the health risks that could come from that .	some argue that the nfl case is different than the nhl case .
opt	choose	VB	opt	choose	26	12	should it be used , the local board of education must determine how it will be used and whether a parent will be notified or can opt for a different form of discipline .	it must also decide whether a parent will be notified or can choose a different type of punishment .
swimming	bathing	NN	swimming	bathing	29	14	in recent years , crowds of ultra-orthodox men have burned down bus shelters featuring images of scantily clad women , and have sought to stop construction of a mixed-gender swimming pool .	crowds of ultra-orthodox men have burned down bus stops with posters of women in bathing suits , which they say are not modest .
able	possible	JJ	able	possible	19	22	if such exoplanets do turn out to be common among the distant stars kepler studies , astronomers should be able to find plenty of them closer to home , the thinking goes .	if such planets turn out to be common among the distant stars kepler studies , it could mean that life might be possible outside of planet earth .
deep-freeze	freeze	NN	deep-freeze	freeze	41	39	out of 1,800 or so confirmed planets , fewer than two dozen sit in the habitable zone where it 's not too hot for water to boil off into space and not too cold for it to remain in a permanent deep-freeze .	out of 1,800 or so confirmed planets , fewer than two dozen sit in a habitable zone where it 's neither so hot that water boils off into space nor so cold that it remains in a permanent deep freeze .
too	so	RB	too	so	21	4	out of 1,800 or so confirmed planets , fewer than two dozen sit in the habitable zone where it 's not too hot for water to boil off into space and not too cold for it to remain in a permanent deep-freeze .	out of 1,800 or so confirmed planets , fewer than two dozen sit in a habitable zone where it 's neither so hot that water boils off into space nor so cold that it remains in a permanent deep freeze .
earth-sized	earth-size	JJ	earth-sized	earth-size	22	22	and given that m-dwarf stars account for 70 percent of the stars in the milky way , there could be billions of earth-sized planets throughout the galaxy , waiting to be discovered .	and given that m-dwarf stars account for 70 percent of the stars in the milky way , there could be billions of earth-size planets throughout our galaxy .
successor	follow-up	NN	successor	follow-up	9	8	and the infrared-sensitive james webb space telescope , the successor to the hubble space telescope , will be able to isolate the signature of water and other molecules necessary for life in the atmospheres of nearby planets .	and the james webb space telescope , the follow-up to the hubble space telescope , will be able to spot water and other molecules necessary for life in the atmospheres of nearby planets .
schoolhouse	school	NN	schoolhouse	school	23	17	they do n't become accustomed to studying , '' said madhukar yadhav , the headmaster at balmohan vidyamandir , a stately , wood-paneled schoolhouse in the bustling shivaji park neighborhood .	they do n't become accustomed to studying , '' said madhukar yadhav , the head of a school .
shore	shorebird	NN	shore	shorebird	13	13	but in the 1990s , scientists began noticing a sharp decline in a shore bird called the red knot , which makes a two-week stop along the new jersey and delaware shore to gorge on eggs on its way to the arctic from argentina .	but in the 1990s , scientists began noticing a sharp decline in a shorebird called the red knot , which makes a two-week stop along the new jersey and delaware shores to eat the crabs ' eggs on its way to the arctic from argentina .
discussion	talk	NN	discussion	talk	16	10	philadelphia in china , maura cunningham says , if you 're going to hold an online discussion of the tiananmen square massacre , you better speak in code .	historian maura cunningham says it 's dangerous for the chinese talk online about what happened in tianamen square : you have to speak in code .
dissent	opposition	NN	dissent	opposition	15	15	in a country where it 's foolhardy to gather publicly to demand democratic reforms , dissent has moved online , onto a shifting landscape of chat rooms and social-media platforms .	in a country where it 's foolhardy to gather publicly to demand democratic reforms , opposition has moved online , onto a shifting landscape of chat rooms and social-media platforms .
value	amount	NN	value	amount	3	3	while the historic value will take more research and debate to be figured out , matt wrbican , the andy warhol museum 's chief archivist , said the interest is understandable for one of the world 's most prolific and studied artists .	but the high amount of interest is understandable for one of the world 's most productive and studied artists .
argument	discussion	NN	argument	discussion	22	3	mostly , it 's about river water allowed to reach the pacific ocean through the sacramento-san joaquin river delta a perennial california argument filled with suspicion , lawsuits and politics .	mostly , the discussion is about river water allowed to reach the pacific ocean through the sacramento-san joaquin river delta .
important	main	JJ	important	main	5	16	government scientists say it 's important to understand that the sacramento and the san joaquin , the state 's two longest rivers , are the hub of the water supply for 3 million acres of farmland and 25 million residents .	the sacramento and the san joaquin , the state 's two longest rivers , are the main water supply for 3 million acres of farmland .
warrant	arrest	NN	warrant	arrest	9	2	in wurie 's case , boston police lacked a warrant when they checked the call log on his gray verizon lg phone after busting him on drug and gun charges .	after his arrest , cops checked his phone 's call log .
somewhat	quite	RB	somewhat	quite	4	5	swarthmore 's machine is somewhat less frugal , at the equivalent of less than 1,300 miles per gallon , though a direct comparison with gasoline engines is tricky since it is powered by a hydrogen fuel cell .	swarthmore 's machine does n't quite reach that level : it gets what translates into a little less than 1,300 miles per gallon .
support	help	VBP	support	help	40	2	additionally , marshes serve as filters that keep pollutants from draining to the bay and even trap some carbon dioxide , said doug myers , maryland senior scientist at the chesapeake bay foundation , one of the non-governmental organizations that support the project .	marshes also help keep poisons from draining into the bay .
large	strong	JJ	large	strong	17	5	bahr said a species survives when the strongest survive , but that hunters tend to shoot those large '' trophy '' animals instead of the weaker , smaller animals that natural predators take .	hunters tend to shoot those strong animals instead of the weaker , smaller animals that natural predators take .
point	matter	NN	point	matter	19	16	for residents of andreyevka , a slovyansk suburb , who controls the tower is a bit of a moot point : with no electricity , they ca n't watch either russian or ukrainian television .	for residents of andreyevka , a slovyansk suburb , who controls the tower does n't really matter : with no electricity , they ca n't watch either russian or ukrainian television .
chairman	chairwoman	NN	chairman	chairwoman	3	4	tarshia stanley , chairman of spelman college 's english department and an expert on the black female image , said that before girls can even articulate what it means , they are bombarded by black ideals and white images of beauty with political , social and cultural pressure to mimic white women 's hair .	tarshia stanley is the chairwoman of spelman college 's english department and an expert on the black female image .
say	make	VBP	say	make	31	6	because raising animals demands so many resources , the only viable way to hit global targets for greenhouse gas reduction may be to encourage people to eat less meat , they say .	raising animals requires many resources that make greenhouse gasses .
often	frequently	RB	often	frequently	28	24	louis high school agriculture programs sprouting across the nation 's corn belt are teaching teenagers , many of them in urban environments , that careers in the field often have nothing to do with cows and plows .	louis high school agriculture programs are sprouting across the nation 's midwest , teaching many teenagers living in cities that careers in the field frequently have nothing to do with cows and plows .
often	always	RB	often	always	28	12	louis high school agriculture programs sprouting across the nation 's corn belt are teaching teenagers , many of them in urban environments , that careers in the field often have nothing to do with cows and plows .	the classes are teaching teenagers that working in the field does not always mean dealing with cows and plows .
stipend	allowance	NN	stipend	allowance	47	47	beech grove 's program , among 13 the state has added since 2010 , has two middle school and two high school teachers for nearly 500 students , a number that helps the program pay for itself thanks to a state fund that gives districts a per-student stipend depending on the class .	beech grove 's program , among 13 the state has added since 2010 , has two middle school and two high school teachers for nearly 500 students , a number that helps the program pay for itself thanks to a state fund that gives districts a per-student allowance depending on the class .
clout	influence	NN	clout	influence	14	11	the rise of the chettri sisters ' business in many ways reflects the increasing clout of women in nepal , which remains in most ways a deeply patriarchal country .	the rise of the chettri sisters ' business reflects the increasing influence of women in nepal .
prospect	opportunity	NN	prospect	opportunity	1	1	the prospect of seeing one of the few surviving wright-designed corporate offices from inside has prompted intense interest with most of the free tours already reserved throughout may and into june .	the opportunity to see one of the few surviving wright-designed corporate offices from inside has prompted intense interest , with most of the free tours already reserved throughout may and into june .
known	famous	JJ	known	famous	33	18	as if to confirm wright 's bold idea , within eight years of the research tower opening in 1950 , johnson 's wax employees had created numerous products that are still well - known today .	within eight years of the tower opening in 1950 , many products were created there that are still famous today .
foster-designed	foster	JJ	foster-designed	foster	8	8	visitors start their guided tours at the norman foster-designed fortaleza hall , which features exhibits on wright 's prairie-style designs and usonia , his architectural vision for american homes .	visitors start their guided tours at the norman foster designed fortaleza hall .
retaliation	revenge	NN	retaliation	revenge	12	12	in the video , shekau said he carried out the kidnappings in retaliation for the imprisonment of boko haram members and detention of women and children associated with the group .	in the video , shekau said he carried out the kidnappings as revenge for the imprisonment of boko haram members , as well as women and children associated with the group .
numbing	numbed	JJ	numbing	numbed	7	6	but with the wind chill and snow numbing workers ' hands and making footing on high structures treacherous , the crew members had to stop frequently to recover in warming shelters , cutting down productivity by more than half , supervisors said .	but the wind chill and snow numbed workers ' hands and made footing on high structures dangerous .
dismiss	fire	VB	dismiss	fire	15	15	his party swept local elections in march despite a corruption scandal that forced him to dismiss four government ministers in december and later also implicated him and family members .	his party swept local elections in march despite a corruption scandal that forced him to fire four government ministers in december and later also implicated him and family members .
small-scale	small	JJ	small-scale	small	27	11	but the country 's main opposition party said erdogan 's ruling party had recently voted down a proposal to hold a parliamentary inquiry into a series of small-scale accidents at the mines around soma .	but erdogan 's government recently decided against investigating a series of small accidents at the mines around soma .
study	examination	NN	study	examination	15	1	carbon-dating of her teeth and isotope data from crystals that formed on her bones helped study authors determine that the girl lived 12,000 to 13,000 years ago in what would have been a parched environment .	an examination of the girl 's teeth and bones revealed that she lived 12,000 to 13,000 years ago .
apt	likely	JJ	apt	likely	32	18	with the united states drawing down its troop numbers from wars in afghanistan and iraq , the active-duty prospects for a generation that grew up in the age of terror are n't apt to improve , say area recruiters and educators .	the chances for active-duty service for a generation that grew up in the age of terror are n't likely to improve .
ice	glacier	NN	ice	glacier	21	6	but the new studies found that the loss is underway now as warming ocean water melts away the base of the ice shelf , and is occurring far more rapidly than scientists expected .	but new studies found that the glacier collapse is underway and occurring far more rapidly than scientists expected .
inverse	reverse	NN	inverse	reverse	15	29	more emissions mean more melting and faster collapse , the researchers said , but the inverse is true , too .	more emissions from the burning of fossil fuels , including oil , gas and coal , mean more melting and faster collapse , the researchers said , but the reverse is true , too .
power	electricity	NN	power	electricity	28	12	before leaving earth , he 'd need to know more about the technology and contingency plans after all , he 'd hate to run out of food or power or water 34 million miles from home .	after all , he 'd hate to run out of food or electricity or water 34 million miles from home .
role	importance	NN	role	importance	7	12	washington delivering a forceful argument on the role of the arts in education , michelle obama said tuesday that it is n't something to be introduced after student test scores go up but is a critical element of achieving those higher test scores in the first place .	washington on tuesday , michelle obama delivered a forceful argument for the importance of the arts in education .
application	app	NN	application	app	2	2	through the application of their choice , the children can form sentences by putting together words , which come in the form of buttons and a picture to match the word .	through the app of their choice , the children can form sentences by putting together words , which come in the form of buttons and a picture to match the word .
belie	contradict	VB	belie	contradict	19	8	current mexican president enrique pena nieto argues that violence is down , but several hot spots around the country belie his depiction , including western michoacan state , the state of tamaulipas bordering texas and both morelos and mexico state surrounding mexico city .	however , several hot spots around the country contradict his depiction , including western michoacan state , the state of tamaulipas bordering texas and both morelos and mexico state surrounding mexico city .
successfully	correctly	RB	successfully	correctly	1	1	they successfully kept their chairs on stage with words like objicient -lrb- argumentative -rrb- , valkyrian -lrb- related to battle -rrb- , formicivorous -lrb- feeding on ants -rrb- , pikas -lrb- small mammals of the asian mountains -rrb- , ocellus -lrb- an insect eye used for detecting light -rrb- and wordsworthian -lrb- relating to the poet william wordsworth -rrb- .	they correctly spelled objicient -lrb- argumentative -rrb- , valkyrian -lrb- related to battle -rrb- and formicivorous -lrb- feeding on ants -rrb- .
acquisition	purchase	NN	acquisition	purchase	7	7	it 's by far the most expensive acquisition in apple 's 38-year history , a price that the company is paying to counter a threat posed to its itunes store .	it 's by far the most expensive purchase in apple 's 38-year history .
scene	image	NN	scene	image	37	8	apple is counting on the beats acquisition to boost its cachet with teenagers and younger adults as it tries to remain a leader in digital music an industry that looks much different than when apple reshaped the scene with the 2001 debut of the ipod .	apple is counting on beats to boost its image with teenagers and younger adults .
improbable	unlikely	JJ	improbable	unlikely	18	18	the cathedral stands a stone 's throw from the site where , working off of old maps and improbable hopes , archaeologists dug in search of the last recorded place where richard 's body was buried , beneath the floor of a lost medieval church .	the cathedral stands a stone 's throw from the site where , working off of old maps and unlikely hopes , archaeologists dug in search of the last recorded place where richard 's body was buried .
plan	propose	VBP	plan	propose	72	1	the association is also seeking other changes to the law , including scrapping a requirement that foods be 100 percent whole-grain by july 2014 and sticking with the current 50 percent target ; holding to the newly enacted standard for sodium rather than a lower target scheduled to go into effect in a few years ; and eliminating the requirement that students take a fruit or vegetable , regardless of whether they plan to eat it .	they propose scrapping a requirement that foods be 100 percent whole-grain by july 2014 and sticking with the current 50 percent target .
bizarre	strange	JJ	bizarre	strange	16	16	but what 's normal to zupp and other contestants on the memory championship circuit can seem bizarre to those of us who habitually forget to buy milk at the store , who zone out on names at cocktail parties and who do n't remember birthdays or anniversaries until the day has passed .	but what 's normal to zupp and other competitors on the memory championship circuit can seem strange to others .
amount	total	NN	amount	total	2	14	of that amount , $ 30 million came from the national college athletic association -lrb- ncaa -rrb- and $ 25 million came from the national football league -lrb- nfl -rrb- .	the national college athletic association -lrb- ncaa -rrb- pledged $ 30 million of that total .
diagnosis	detection	NN	diagnosis	detection	28	8	in the coming years , giza said , the program hopes to broaden its reach into schools and youth sports leagues across the region ; fuel advances in diagnosis , care and recovery ; and clarify the longer-term effects of concussion on the still-developing brain .	its goal will be to fuel advances in detection , care and recovery , and to clarify the longer-term effects of concussion on the still-developing brain .
set	play	VB	set	play	15	10	in a briefing wednesday , white house spokesman jay carney said reports that concussions may set the stage for learning problems , mental health issues and even dementia have made parents wary of allowing their children to participate in organized athletics .	this has made parents uncomfortable about allowing their children to play several sports .
several	certain	JJ	several	certain	17	10	the panel recommended that , until more is known , leagues , coaches and parents should take several precautions : a child who has been hit hard in the head should be banned from playing until he or she has been medically evaluated .	the panel recommended that leagues , coaches and parents follow certain safety guidelines : a child who has been hit hard in the head should be banned from playing until he or she has been examined by a doctor .
preserve	keep	VB	preserve	keep	29	9	knowing this will help humans predict how animals will adapt to a warming climate , as well as help them decide what kinds of habitat are most critical to preserve , the researchers added .	the report will help people predict how animals will keep cool in a warming climate .
jurisdiction	territory	NN	jurisdiction	territory	32	14	a federally recognized tribe is considered a sovereign nation that has a government-to-government relationship with the united states and possesses the right to create and enforce laws , regulate activities within its jurisdiction and determine membership criteria .	it possesses the right to create and enforce laws , regulate activities within its territory and determine who is eligible to be a member .
departure	start	NN	departure	start	15	4	but the southern african zebra move largely in a straight line and the distance between departure and destination points appears to be an average of 10 to 20 kilometers -lrb- 6 to 12 miles -rrb- farther than in the serengeti , according to research cited by naidoo .	the distance between their start and finish appears to be an average of 6 to 12 miles farther than the wildebeest travel , according to naidoo .
move	travel	VBP	move	travel	5	1	but the southern african zebra move largely in a straight line and the distance between departure and destination points appears to be an average of 10 to 20 kilometers -lrb- 6 to 12 miles -rrb- farther than in the serengeti , according to research cited by naidoo .	they travel 6 to 12 miles farther from start to finish than the wildebeest travel , according to a study described by naidoo .
position	location	NN	position	location	19	4	linked to get multiple angles of view , the cameras collect data 25 times a second on the two-dimensional position of each player on the court and the three-dimensional position of the ball .	the linked cameras collect location data 25 times a second .
individual	certain	JJ	individual	certain	9	18	the system also can help assess defense , both individual and team , giving insight into how well a particular player guards another or how well a team does when it is defended in a particular way .	users can learn how well a particular player guards another or how well a team does against a certain defense .
product	result	NN	product	result	8	8	the purge of americans and others is the product though not , the government says , the goal of an attempt to make the school curriculum more rigorous .	the removal of americans and others is the result of an attempt to make the school syllabus harder .
curriculum	syllabus	NN	curriculum	syllabus	25	16	the purge of americans and others is the product though not , the government says , the goal of an attempt to make the school curriculum more rigorous .	the removal of americans and others is the result of an attempt to make the school syllabus harder .
read	say	VBP	read	say	19	7	the education department says the guidelines represent the minimum students are required to learn , and that those who read more widely and internationally will do better on the exams .	the education department says the guidelines just say what students are required to learn to pass the exam .
decipher	decode	VB	decipher	decode	25	14	using the navajo language , they developed an unbreakable military communications code , then risked their lives on battlefields across the pacific to send and decipher messages critical to america and its allies in world war ii .	then , they risked their lives on battlefields across the pacific to send and decode messages critical to america and its allies in world war ii .
unique	particular	JJ	unique	particular	32	7	when they 're done , crime-scene investigators and a host of other kinds of researchers around the world will be able to search through files of three-dimensional models of the thousands of unique molecules and information about their attributes .	these will show the molecules found in particular dyes .
find	identify	VB	find	identify	15	8	the idea behind the library was to create a powerful tool for forensic investigators to find the sources of dyed fibers from clothing or other sources such as car interiors , furniture and carpeting .	the online resource will make it easier to identify the sources of dyed fibers from such things as clothing , car interiors , furniture and carpeting .
university	campus	NN	university	campus	37	13	the idea for the artwork was born of a violent campus protest on may 5 , 1970 , one day after ohio national guardsmen killed four students and wounded nine others protesting the war at kent state university .	the idea for the artwork was born of a violent protest on another campus on may 5 , 1970 .
repaint	paint	VB	repaint	paint	10	10	the students knew that the ucla administration was planning to repaint parts of ackerman , and they persuaded administrators to give them $ 300 to put a mural on an interior wall .	they persuaded the school to give them $ 300 to paint the mural .
launch	opening	NN	launch	opening	2	2	at the launch event , garces who runs restaurants including amada , distrito , and volvr unfurled his knife roll and shuffled a set of flash cards for cooks from the abbaye , maggiano 's , and morning glory diner .	at the opening event , garces who runs several philadelphia restaurants unrolled his knives .
hub	center	NN	hub	center	29	7	with '' more parking spots for little legs , '' as hu put it , their enormous bodies acted as hubs for limbs , like a tiny bicycle wheel hub connecting the spokes .	their enormous bodies acted as hubs or center points for all the ant legs .
lease	rent	NN	lease	rent	26	26	hundreds of spaces that for years have been clubs for teens looking for preppy clothes , maybe with a flashy logo , could be available for lease as clothing retailers such as american eagle outfitters , abercrombie &amp; amp ; fitch and aeropostale reconsider what kind of square footage they need .	hundreds of spaces that for years have been clubs for teens looking for preppy clothes , maybe with a flashy logo , could be available for rent .
harley-davidson	harley	NN	harley-davidson	harley	14	6	motorcycle thefts are on the decline , and of five major brands , only harley-davidson owners saw an uptick in the number of stolen bikes in 2013 , new data from the national insurance crime bureau show .	out of five major brands , harley was the only one that saw an uptick in the number of stolen bikes in 2013 , new data from the national insurance crime bureau show .
harley	harley-davidson	NN	harley	harley-davidson	6	5	out of five major brands , harley was the only one that saw an uptick in the number of stolen bikes in 2013 , new data from the national insurance crime bureau show .	of five major brands , harley-davidson was the only one that had a jump in the number of bikes stolen in 2013 .
lenient	lax	JJ	lenient	lax	10	8	republican lawmakers have blamed obama for the influx , saying lenient enforcement of immigration laws and the holding out of potential amnesty is drawing migrants from central america , particularly children looking to be reunited with a parent already in the united states .	republican lawmakers have blamed obama , saying that lax enforcement of immigration laws and the possibility of amnesty is drawing migrants from central america .
buildup	build-up	NN	buildup	build-up	5	5	rio de janeiro in the buildup to the world cup , the brazilian football catchphrase of '' jogo bonito '' the beautiful game was drowned out by the bangs of frantic construction work and the shouts of angry protesters .	rio de janeiro in the build-up to the world cup in brazil , you could n't hear much excitement about what brazilians call '' jogo bonito '' the beautiful game .
significant	much	JJ	significant	much	21	20	if it stands , it would mean the team can continue to use the name , but it would lose a significant portion of its ability to protect the financial interests connected to it .	if it stands , it would mean the team can continue to use the name , but it would lose much of its ability to protect the financial interests connected to it .
sector	section	NN	sector	section	5	5	on saturday , a major sector of the united church of christ voted to urge its 40,000 members to boycott the redskins .	on saturday , a major section of the united church of christ voted to urge its 40,000 members to boycott the redskins that is , to not attend their games or buy their merchandise .
competent	skilled	JJ	competent	skilled	9	9	instead , they were thought to be less socially competent by their peers and had more problems with substance abuse , said joseph allen , a professor of psychology at the university of virginia and lead author on the study .	instead , they were thought to be less socially skilled by their peers , said joseph allen , who led the study .
adhere	stick	VB	adhere	stick	20	4	kleinteich thinks the mechanism most closely resembles pressure-sensitive adhesion , the same effect that allows sticky tape and labels to adhere to a surface and later be removed without a trace .	it allows them to stick to a surface and later be removed without a trace .
picture	painting	NN	picture	painting	32	21	over the past five years , experts from the phillips collection , national gallery of art , cornell university and delaware 's winterthur museum have developed a clearer image of the mystery picture under the surface .	experts from the phillips collection , national gallery of art , and other museums and universities have worked to study the painting over the past five years .
columnist	journalist	NN	columnist	journalist	6	6	others , such as la razon columnist monica garza , said the word risks becoming a convenient , trendy and superficial catchall in a country rife with social ills , where the mistreatment and abuse of people of all ages and of laws often by authorities or drug cartels has long been rampant .	others , such as mexican newspaper journalist monica garza , said the word could just become an easy and trendy term to use in a country full of social ills .
convenient	easy	JJ	convenient	easy	16	17	others , such as la razon columnist monica garza , said the word risks becoming a convenient , trendy and superficial catchall in a country rife with social ills , where the mistreatment and abuse of people of all ages and of laws often by authorities or drug cartels has long been rampant .	others , such as mexican newspaper journalist monica garza , said the word could just become an easy and trendy term to use in a country full of social ills .
rampant	widespread	JJ	rampant	widespread	52	20	others , such as la razon columnist monica garza , said the word risks becoming a convenient , trendy and superficial catchall in a country rife with social ills , where the mistreatment and abuse of people of all ages and of laws often by authorities or drug cartels has long been rampant .	the mistreatment and abuse of people of all ages and of laws often by authorities or drug cartels has been widespread for a long time , she says .
irate	angry	JJ	irate	angry	9	9	at hermosa beach in california last year , an irate mother confronted a lifeguard about a drone that hovered near her and her daughter , and snapped photos while they were tanning .	at hermosa beach in california last year , an angry mother confronted a lifeguard about a drone .
meticulous	careful	JJ	meticulous	careful	20	8	conducting one of the team 's recent four-hour rehearsals , castellanos shifts seamlessly between colloquial street slang and a relentlessly meticulous focus on language , rhythm , performance and meaning that would be challenging for an advanced college class .	castellanos shifts easily between street slang and a careful examination of poetic language , rhythm , performance and meaning .
precise	careful	JJ	precise	careful	19	8	conducting one of the team 's recent four-hour rehearsals , castellanos shifts seamlessly between street slang and a relentlessly precise focus on language , rhythm , performance and meaning .	castellanos shifts easily between street slang and a careful examination of poetic language , rhythm , performance and meaning .
center	station	NN	center	station	35	14	the concept is n't irrational , but it 's only appropriate for schools that are located far away from a responding law enforcement agency , said mike dorn , executive director of the school safety center safe havens international .	but it 's only useful for schools that are far away from a police station , said mike dorn .
measure	provision	NN	measure	provision	8	3	it was part of a broader school nutrition measure that opened the door for districts with free or reduced-price lunches to offer the meals to every student at the school .	the community eligibility provision opened the door for districts with free or reduced-price lunches to offer the meals to every student at the school .
spokesperson	spokeswoman	NN	spokesperson	spokeswoman	31	13	indiana 's east allen county schools , which is near fort wayne , opted not to participate because officials wanted to wait and see the effects in neighboring districts , district spokesperson tamyra kelly said .	officials wanted to wait and see the effects in neighboring districts , district spokeswoman tamyra kelly said .
free-lunch	free	JJ	free-lunch	free	14	18	she said some unrelated funds , like per-student aid from the state based on free-lunch enrollment levels , are tied to paperwork that could be more difficult to collect if no application is necessary for the free lunch program .	without it , the funds could be more difficult to collect if no application is necessary for the free lunch program .
incessant	constant	JJ	incessant	constant	25	25	that 's been downright delightful and makes you realize what time-vampires baseball , football and even college basketball have become with their commercial breaks and incessant timeout during the stretch .	that 's been downright delightful and makes you realize what time-vampires baseball , football and even college basketball have become with their commercial breaks and constant timeouts .
gap	weakness	NN	gap	weakness	8	4	when a football or basketball coach isolates a gap in the opposing team 's strategy or a mismatch of players , he will exploit that weakness again and again .	when he finds a weakness , the coach will take advantage of it again and again .
orca	whale	NN	orca	whale	20	20	yet despite the vast rise in knowledge since killer whales were listed as endangered in 2005 , the region 's orca population already a fraction of what it was in the 1960s still is not growing , according to a new synopsis of research on the cetaceans by the national oceanic and atmospheric administration -lrb- noaa -rrb- .	yet despite the vast rise in knowledge since killer whales were listed under the endangered species act , the killer whale population still is not growing , according to a new research on the whales .
improve	increase	VB	improve	increase	12	12	the region has spent tens of millions of dollars to try and improve this other esa-protected species , although a scathing 2011 report suggested too little progress was being made .	the region has spent tens of millions of dollars to try and increase the numbers of this other protected species , but an extremely critical 2011 report suggested too little progress was being made .
esa-protected	protected	JJ	esa-protected	protected	15	18	the region has spent tens of millions of dollars to try and improve this other esa-protected species , although a scathing 2011 report suggested too little progress was being made .	the region has spent tens of millions of dollars to try and increase the numbers of this other protected species , but an extremely critical 2011 report suggested too little progress was being made .
substance	material	NN	substance	material	6	8	the scrap is made from a substance alcoa aluminum called 24st alclad , which was used in the manufacture of nearly all american planes manufactured in the 1930s including earhart 's lockheed electra .	tests have shown the scrap is made from material used in all american planes manufactured in the 1930s including earhart 's .
apparently	supposedly	RB	apparently	supposedly	32	6	the ukrainian interior ministry released a video purporting to show a truck carrying the buk missile launcher it said was used to fire on the plane with one of its four missiles apparently missing .	the ukrainian government released a video supposedly showing a truck carrying a buk missile launcher it said was used to fire on the plane .
ukrainian	ukrainian-controlled	JJ	ukrainian	ukrainian-controlled	23	19	andrei purgin , a leader of the pro-russian separatists , told the associated press that after consultations with international diplomats and a former ukrainian president , a decision has been reached for bodies to be taken to the government-controlled black sea city of mariupol .	andrei purgin , a leader of the pro-russian separatists , said the bodies were to be taken to the ukrainian-controlled city of mariupol .
airline	aviation	NN	airline	aviation	11	2	malaysian transport minister liow tiong lay insisted again friday that the airline 's path was an internationally approved route and denied accusations the airline was trying to save fuel and money by taking a more direct flight path across ukraine .	a malaysian aviation authority insisted friday that the airline 's path was an internationally approved route .
airline	air	NN	airline	air	11	2	malaysian transport minister liow tiong lay insisted again friday that the airline 's path was an internationally approved route and denied accusations the airline was trying to save fuel and money by taking a more direct flight path across ukraine .	a malaysian air official said friday that the airline took an internationally approved route .
soon	shortly	RB	soon	shortly	12	2	looking eastward from the canyon 's popular south rim , visitors could soon see a hive of construction as workers build restaurants , hotels and shops on a distant mesa on the navajo indian reservation .	workers may shortly begin building restaurants , hotels and shops on a distant mesa on the navajo indian reservation .
renaissance	rebirth	NN	renaissance	rebirth	28	28	hammers and drills sound at all hours on the flats east bank , a onetime hip area that fell into disarray a decade ago and is experiencing a renaissance .	hammers and drills sound at all hours on the flats east bank , a onetime hip area that fell into disarray a decade ago and is experiencing a rebirth .
backdrop	background	NN	backdrop	background	12	12	while the simmering conflict between the israelis and palestinians is often a backdrop during the program , this is one of the first times the program has taken place when the two sides are actually fighting , said roy gordon , a facilitator in the program .	while the conflict between the israelis and palestinians is often in the background , this is one of the first times the program has taken place when the two sides are actually fighting , said roy gordon , who works for the program .
local	local-history	JJ	local	local-history	6	6	jackie bunker-lohrenz , the borough 's local history librarian , said she was impressed lawshe decided to acknowledge how native american culture had shaped the history of franklin lakes .	jackie bunker-lohrenz , the town 's local-history librarian , said she was impressed lawshe decided to acknowledge how native american culture had shaped the history of franklin lakes .
control	command	NN	control	command	12	10	stowell estimated that the roosevelt library will eventually become a '' mission control '' for scholars and fans of roosevelt while it slowly collects more physical artifacts in time .	stowell estimated that the roosevelt library will eventually become the command center for scholars and fans of roosevelt .
time	point	NN	time	point	28	8	stowell estimated that the roosevelt library will eventually become a '' mission control '' for scholars and fans of roosevelt while it slowly collects more physical artifacts in time .	stowell thinks the library will become a gathering point for roosevelt scholars and fans .
old	year-old	JJ	old	year-old	17	10	somewhere out in the hills are thousands of head of mexican-born beef cattle , about a year old , unaware they soon will be herded into 18-wheelers for the third or fourth time in their lives , now destined for the feedlot .	somewhere out in the hills are thousands of head of year-old beef cattle unaware they soon will be herded into 18-wheeler trucks .
end	effect	NN	end	effect	37	4	though several previous cease-fires broke down in violence , gazans venturing out for supplies or making their way toward ruined districts cut off by earlier fighting expressed cautious hopes that this might be the beginning of the end of the war .	with the cease-fire in effect , gazans ventured out for supplies or made their way toward ruined districts cut off by earlier fighting .
assailant	attacker	NN	assailant	attacker	19	20	a security guard was stabbed tuesday at the entrance to the israeli settlement of maale adumim , and an assailant fled in the direction of a nearby palestinian village , officials said .	a security guard was stabbed tuesday at the entrance to an israeli settlement in the west bank , and an attacker fled in the direction of a nearby palestinian village , officials said .
proliferate	multiply	VB	proliferate	multiply	17	15	and as the number of '' buddy '' or '' inclusion companion '' sporting opportunities continues to proliferate across the country , advocates for children with special needs say young people today are growing up with a better understanding and openness toward people with disabilities than the generations before them .	the number of '' buddy '' or '' inclusion companion '' sporting opportunities continues to multiply across the country .
see	find	VB	see	find	23	13	mk dungan , kathryn 's mother , said after years of searching for meaningful activities for her daughter , she was thrilled to see kathryn not just enjoying the weekly baseball outing , but talking about it for days beforehand .	mk dungan , kathryn 's mother , said she searched for years to find meaningful activities for her daughter .
paint	painting	NN	paint	painting	25	18	distracted by wings or tail fins , they tended not to notice chris demarest until they nearly bumped into him and his long table of paint vials , water jugs and solvent cans .	they tended not to notice chris demarest until they nearly bumped into him and his long table of painting supplies .
frozen-frame	frozen	JJ	frozen-frame	frozen	15	2	they bring him black-and-white photos , photocopied portraits or plastic scrapbooks to share , little frozen-frame moments that , for many , contain the biggest stories of their lives .	these little frozen moments , for many , contain the biggest stories of their lives .
bring	cause	VB	bring	cause	32	11	even away games involving the sierra leone and guinea teams could be problematic after the seychelles prevented the sierra leone squad from entering its country last month because of fears they could bring in ebola .	even away games involving the sierra leone and guinea teams could cause problems .
faraway	distant	JJ	faraway	distant	8	8	chicago it could be a scene from a faraway land women in long , colorful skirts harvesting mustard leaves , a man with a weathered face and a traditional salwar kameez beneath his suit jacket squeezing between rows chopped , fermented daikon spread out to dry .	chicago it could be a scene from a distant land : women in long , colorful skirts and men in traditional garments are tending to a small , lush farm , where chopped , fermented daikon is spread out to dry .
operation	farm	NN	operation	farm	8	1	founded with a federal grant , the 2-year-old operation is an opportunity for refugees to return to the farm lives many left behind , to grow fresh vegetables for traditional dishes , to get fresh air and exercise , and to socialize in an open-air community center .	the farm gives refugees living in the city a chance to return to the farm lives many were forced to leave behind .
supplemental	additional	JJ	supplemental	additional	16	16	rapp funds small-acreage farms across the country to help refugee families grow healthy food and obtain supplemental income , and to promote better physical and mental health and encourage greater community integration .	rapp supports small farms across the country to help refugee families grow healthy food and obtain additional income , and to promote better physical and mental health and encourage greater community integration .
small-acreage	small	JJ	small-acreage	small	2	2	rapp funds small-acreage farms across the country to help refugee families grow healthy food and obtain supplemental income , and to promote better physical and mental health and encourage greater community integration .	rapp supports small farms across the country to help refugee families grow healthy food and obtain additional income , and to promote better physical and mental health and encourage greater community integration .
supplemental	extra	JJ	supplemental	extra	16	16	rapp funds small-acreage farms across the country to help refugee families grow healthy food and obtain supplemental income , and to promote better physical and mental health and encourage greater community integration .	rapp supports small farms across the country to help refugee families grow healthy food , earn extra money and encourage better physical and mental health .
ample	enough	JJ	ample	enough	9	10	but its 700 grizzlies share 3,400 square miles , ample room to support them so grandly that fish and wildlife is expected later this year to remove federal protections for grizzlies in the region .	its 700 grizzlies share 3,400 square miles , which is enough room to support the bears well enough that fish and wildlife is expected later this year to remove federal protections for grizzlies in the region .
tower	ride	NN	tower	ride	42	7	the original anaheim version was renovated in 2009 to include modern disney songs and movie characters , such as ariel , flounder and nemo in the south seas section ; woody and bullseye in north america ; and tinker bell flying over tower bridge in london .	in 2009 , disney renovated the original ride in anaheim , california , to add modern disney songs and movie characters .
means	methods	NNS	means	method	19	12	working primarily at night , they will be allowed to use harpoons , spear guns , crossbows and other means to catch the alligator , killing it with a bang stick , a pole that discharges a shotgun shell or bullet into the reptile 's brain .	working primarily at night , they will be allowed to use various methods of killing the reptiles : harpoons , spear guns , crossbows or a '' bang stick , '' a pole that discharges a bullet into the reptile 's brain .
great	large	JJ	great	large	8	13	iraqi yazidis could face genocide and die in great numbers , president barack obama said last week as he announced the united states would drop water and food to those who fled the islamic state -lrb- isil -rrb- .	iraqi yazidis could face a genocide , meaning they could be killed in large numbers , president barack obama said last week .
hong-kong	hong	JJ	hong-kong	hong	20	7	in a resurrection of one of those plans , the government of nicaragua has joined forces with hknd , a hong-kong based group , to build a canal that would directly compete with the panama canal .	the government of nicaragua has joined with hong kong group hknd to build a canal in nicaragua that would compete with the panama canal .
hong-kong	kong	JJ	hong-kong	kong	20	8	in a resurrection of one of those plans , the government of nicaragua has joined forces with hknd , a hong-kong based group , to build a canal that would directly compete with the panama canal .	the government of nicaragua has joined with hong kong group hknd to build a canal in nicaragua that would compete with the panama canal .
suspend	stay	VB	suspend	stay	31	25	after all , the current crisis has been stoked by loose talk in washington about a possible '' amnesty '' of illegal immigrants , stoked by obama 's 2012 decision to suspend deportation of youth with long-standing ties to the united states , and news that young children arriving at the border were being released pending hearings .	the crisis has been made worse by talk in washington about a possible '' amnesty '' of illegal immigrants that would allow them all to stay here .
narco-violence	violence	NN	narco-violence	violence	9	8	hernandez also explained the '' push factor '' : narco-violence that sows insecurity and deadly street gangs preying on youth in his country and neighboring el salvador and guatemala .	hernandez also explained the push factor : drug violence that creates insecurity and deadly street gangs preying on youth in his country and neighboring el salvador and guatemala .
unambiguous	clear	JJ	unambiguous	clear	25	16	republicans made these arguments while crafting a tough measure that would strengthen border enforcement , make it easier to deport new arrivals and send an unambiguous signal that the border is being secured .	it would strengthen border enforcement , make it easier to deport new arrivals and send a clear signal that the border is being secured .
amnesty	amnesty-for-all	NN	amnesty	amnesty-for-all	41	27	and , the president does not need new authority to get a handle on this crisis by sending an unambiguous message that illegal crossings will be stopped , most new arrivals will be turned around , and a sweeping unilateral '' amnesty '' is off the table .	he can gain control of it by stating firmly that illegal crossings will be stopped , most new arrivals will be turned around , and that '' amnesty-for-all '' is off the table .
amnesty-for-all	amnesty	NN	amnesty-for-all	amnesty	27	22	he can gain control of it by stating firmly that illegal crossings will be stopped , most new arrivals will be turned around , and that '' amnesty-for-all '' is off the table .	he must state firmly that illegal crossings will be stopped , most new arrivals will be turned around , and an '' amnesty '' is off the table .
say	mean	VBP	say	mean	2	2	some philatelists say the committee that helps the postmaster general pick new stamps is favoring pop celebrities and fictional characters over cultural sites and historical figures , undermining a long tradition .	such choices mean that cultural sites and historical figures are appearing less often .
mitigate	reduce	VB	mitigate	reduce	19	20	so we need to know as well as we can how they work and whether there are ways to mitigate their effects by early warning or detection , '' said harold tobin , a professor in the department of geoscience at uw-madison .	so we need to know as well as we can how they work and whether there are ways to -lrb- reduce -rrb- their effects by early warning or detection , '' said harold tobin .
trigger	cause	VBP	trigger	cause	5	10	to understand the processes that trigger such massive quakes , the scientists will take samples of rock from the faults they drill , record the conditions in the borehole and , if they 're lucky , catch a quake in action .	scientists are seeking to understand the chain of events that cause big earthquakes .
come	occur	VBP	come	occur	16	7	typically , earthquakes are studied by measuring seismic waves , which are waves of energy that come from tremors within the earth when the plates bump up against each other .	seismic waves are waves of energy that occur when the plates bump up against each other .
borehole	hole	NN	borehole	hole	7	7	and they will place instruments in the borehole to measure seismic tremors and other important characteristics of the fault zone , like the pressure , temperature , and stresses and strains on the rocks , as well as properties of groundwater in the area .	then they will place instruments in the hole to measure seismic tremors and other important characteristics of the fault zone .
broader	larger	JJR	broader	larger	22	19	at the core of these demonstrations is a demand for answers about the circumstances of this young man 's death and a broader concern about the state of our criminal justice system .	at the core of these demonstrations is a demand for answers about how this young man died and a larger concern about the state of our criminal justice system .
mine-resistant	mine	JJ	mine-resistant	mine	16	10	the supplies include sleeping bags , cameras and office equipment , but also assault rifles , mine-resistant armored vehicles and helicopters , said pentagon spokesman mark wright .	but assault rifles , helicopters and vehicles that can withstand mine blasts are also being given out , said mark wright , a spokesman for the department of defense .
illuminate	light	VB	illuminate	light	36	7	they use pvc , or plastic pipes ; an old printer feeder is used as reducing gears ; the hand is a curry comb used to groom horses ; the lights are led strips used to illuminate pools ; and a bicycle inner tube , cooking racks and pool '' noodles '' maintain the machine 's buoyancy .	the lights are led strips used to light up pools .
enact	adopt	VB	enact	adopt	20	17	just this year , five states michigan , new jersey , pennsylvania , west virginia and wisconsin saw pushes to enact official-english laws , although none passed .	this year , michigan , new jersey , pennsylvania , west virginia and wisconsin saw attempts to adopt english as their official language .
official-english	official	JJ	official-english	official	21	21	just this year , five states michigan , new jersey , pennsylvania , west virginia and wisconsin saw pushes to enact official-english laws , although none passed .	this year , michigan , new jersey , pennsylvania , west virginia and wisconsin saw attempts to adopt english as their official language .
official-english	english	JJ	official-english	english	21	18	just this year , five states michigan , new jersey , pennsylvania , west virginia and wisconsin saw pushes to enact official-english laws , although none passed .	this year , michigan , new jersey , pennsylvania , west virginia and wisconsin saw attempts to adopt english as their official language .
new	novel	JJ	new	novel	12	27	employing technology for fundraising campaigns , of course , is n't a new idea : perhaps one of the most enduring began in 1966 when the muscular dystrophy association had its first annual labor day weekend telethon .	back in 1966 , when the muscular dystrophy association held its first labor day weekend telethon , the idea of using television to raise money was a novel idea .
community	group	NN	community	group	5	5	mindy bailey , corporate and community development specialist for jdrf , a foundation that raises money to fight type 1 diabetes , said volunteers want to come up with a similar idea to fuel donations .	mindy bailey works for a group called jdrf .
effectively	properly	RB	effectively	properly	14	12	without correct data , advocates say , cities and states lack adequate resources to effectively handle everything from funding educational programs to battling infant mortality to tracking employment discrimination to staffing hospitals with enough farsi translators .	without correct numbers , they say , cities and states can not properly fund educational or health programs , track discrimination , or staff hospitals with translators .
survey	census	NN	survey	census	17	1	the bureau is meeting with members of the mena community and is planning a couple of national survey tests in 2015 and 2016 to test out a new category .	the census bureau will test a new mena category in 2015 and 2016 .
firm	business	NN	firm	business	19	6	based off of photos of the building , david cocke , president of structural focus , an earthquake retrofit firm based in gardena , said it appeared the mortar between the bricks had been in poor condition .	david cocke runs an earthquake retrofit business .
co-owner	owner	NN	co-owner	owner	0	0	co-owner kim erasmy said the building was retrofitted before she bought it in 2002 , but now city officials told her the building may be too unstable for her to go in .	owner kim erasmy said the building was retrofitted before she bought it in 2002 .
turn	become	VBP	turn	become	4	4	moments later , they turn more somber as they introduce a segment on palestinian hip-hop , discussing the most recent outbreak of war in gaza between palestinians and israelis .	moments later , they become serious as they talk about palestinian hip-hop , discussing the war between palestinians and israelis in the palestinian territory of gaza .
disaffected	unhappy	JJ	disaffected	unhappy	15	13	the duo are among a host of lebanese graffiti artists and rappers trying to re-engage disaffected youth in a debate about the country 's latest wave of political turmoil and the woes of the greater middle east .	the duo are among several lebanese graffiti artists and rappers trying to reach unhappy youth .
hardware	equipment	NN	hardware	equipment	5	12	those costs include buying specialized hardware and contributing $ 200 to $ 300 to the electric bill at his dad 's house .	his costs are heavy , though , and include buying special computer equipment and giving $ 200 to $ 300 to his dad for the electric bill each month .
verify	confirm	VB	verify	confirm	6	6	miners use specialized computer hardware to verify groups of transactions and , more importantly , add a new layer of security to what is known as the block chain , a ledger of every bitcoin transaction .	miners use special computer hardware to confirm purchases and , more importantly , add a new layer of security to what is known as the block chain .
computing	computer	NN	computing	computer	12	13	the competition among bitcoin miners has pushed some to invest in more computing capacity , which is why evan is about to embark on his third round of costly hardware purchases .	the competition among bitcoin miners has pushed some to invest in more powerful computer equipment that can solve the math problems faster .
misappropriation	misuse	NN	misappropriation	misuse	27	28	but lately a lot of people from hipster festival-goers to runway models to musicians have been playing dress-up in them , reigniting a long-standing debate about cultural misappropriation .	but lately a lot of people from hip festival audiences to runway models to musicians have been playing dress-up in them , reviving a long-standing debate about the misuse of other people 's culture .
encounter	experience	NN	encounter	experience	31	20	so when he came to washington for an eight-week summer program on conservation issues , and visited the state 's national parks and desert landscapes , it was his first real encounter with the wilderness .	when he came to washington for a program on conservation , the state 's national parks became his first real experience with the wilderness .
onset	beginning	NN	onset	beginning	5	2	studies suggest that at the onset of adolescence , there is a delay in when the body starts to secrete melatonin , a hormone that tells the body it 's time to go to sleep .	at the beginning of adolescence , the body delays releasing melatonin , a hormone that tells the body that it is time to go to sleep .
support	help	VB	support	help	36	16	viker said the agency was going to work with equine geneticist cothran on a new study to look at the potential for bringing fresh genes into the corolla herd and how many horses the habitat could support .	viker said they were working with a scientist who studies horses on a new study to help the horses have fewer disabilities .
famous	now-famous	JJ	famous	now-famous	7	3	the name monet gave to that now famous work , '' impression , soleil levant , '' -lrb- impression , sunrise -rrb- later was affixed to a school of art marked by its imprecise , subjective depiction of quotidian scenes , executed with loose brush strokes in vivid hues .	monet called the now-famous work '' impression , soleil levant '' -lrb- impression , sunrise -rrb- .
eruption	volcano	NN	eruption	volcano	26	12	he and his research team have linked the luridly orange sky of edvard munch 's '' the scream '' with drifting emissions from the krakatoa volcanic eruption , and dated a monet depiction of a sunset near the cliffs on the normandy coast as well as three van gogh works .	they thought the painting 's intense orange sky was from the krakatoa volcano .
shot	picture	NN	shot	picture	29	9	he also calculated the place where ansel adams snapped his shutter to capture an autumn moon from glacier point in yosemite national park and organized a re-enactment of the shot , under similar celestial conditions , in 2005 .	olson figured out where photographer ansel adams took a picture of an autumn moon from glacier point in yosemite national park in california .
even	indeed	RB	even	indeed	6	3	the remains of people who lived even earlier had been found , but archaeologists assumed they were preserved naturally from burial in the hot and dry desert sand and not through any deliberate mummification by their survivors .	while archaeologists have indeed found remains of people who lived earlier than this , there was not enough evidence to suggest the presence of embalming agents .
synthetic	man-made	JJ	synthetic	man-made	33	17	while the ever-secretive company has been mum on its plans , apple has been stockpiling patents regarding its use and signed a $ 578 million deal with a specialized manufacturer to grow a synthetic version of the mineral at a massive mesa , arizona , plant .	recently , the technology company signed a $ 578 million deal with a manufacturer to grow a man-made version of the mineral at a massive mesa , arizona , plant .
case	incident	NN	case	incident	11	10	the 27-year-old rice was charged with felony aggravated assault in the case , but in may he was accepted into a pretrial intervention program that allowed him to avoid jail time and could lead to the charge being purged from his record .	the 27-year-old rice was sent to court after the february incident .
capacity	ability	NN	capacity	ability	40	16	the united states and britain are sending troops and equipment to west africa to help curb the spread of ebola , officials said monday , as the world health organization -lrb- who -rrb- warned that the outbreak is outstripping the capacity to respond in one of the worst-hit countries .	meanwhile , the world health organization -lrb- who -rrb- warned that the outbreak is outstripping the ability to respond in one of the worst-hit countries .
war-weary	weary	JJ	war-weary	weary	12	13	the violent images appear to have had an impact on a formerly war-weary public , with multiple polls in recent days showing that the majority of americans support airstrikes in both iraq and syria .	the violent images appear to have shifted public opinion , which was formerly weary of war .
bookstore	store	NN	bookstore	store	16	1	it began once upon a time , in a city called amsterdam , in a magical bookstore called erasmus , famed for carrying books filled with thoughts and words the nazis feared .	the store was famed for carrying books filled with ideas the nazis feared .
broad	large	JJ	broad	large	8	8	the good news is that satellite data encompassing broad swathes of the arctic and stretching back for decades now shows little change in atmospheric concentrations of the potent greenhouse gas .	the good news is that satellite information covering large areas of the arctic shows little change in the concentration of methane gas in the atmosphere .
historian	history	NN	historian	history	2	2	as a historian i discuss some very dark and difficult material in class , and as a professor i think it 's important to give students a clear sense of their rights and responsibilities .	as a history professor i discuss some very difficult material in class , and i think it 's important to give students a clear sense of their rights .
allegedly	supposedly	RB	allegedly	supposedly	9	8	the humane case for trigger warnings is that they allegedly help protect students from re-experiencing the past trauma , which can emotionally harm the student and interfere with his or her ability to learn .	the case for trigger warnings is that they supposedly help protect students from re-experiencing the past trauma .
call	name	NN	call	name	20	1	at 22 , mohamed is a newly minted cop on the beat , a community liaison officer making a courtesy call to a local merchant a time-tested neighborhood policing method .	her name is kadra mohamed , 22 .
game	part	NN	game	part	11	10	far from access to natural maple syrup , wild rice and game , the residents at little earth of united tribes a south minneapolis low-income housing complex are finding new old ways to grow crops that existed long before european settlers arrived .	little earth is a housing area located in a poor part of minneapolis .
posh	luxurious	JJ	posh	luxurious	16	16	democratic senator mary landrieu is in a close re-election fight and facing criticism for maintaining a posh capitol hill home with her husband , listing that address on her statement of candidacy filed aug .	democratic senator mary landrieu is in a close re-election fight and has been criticized for her luxurious home in washington .
relocate	move	VBP	relocate	move	6	17	the group has helped 5,000 refugees relocate to various parts of russia by providing tickets for transportation , kotlyarov said .	the group gives out baby formula , disposable diapers and other goods and has helped 5,000 refugees move to various parts of russia by providing tickets for transportation , kotlyarov said .
nizar	ibrahim	NN	nizar	ibrahim	11	3	but in 2008 , lead author and university of chicago paleontologist nizar ibrahim was working in morocco when a bedouin fossil hunter approached him with a cardboard box of sediment-encrusted bones .	in 2008 , ibrahim was working in morocco when a local fossil hunter approached him with a cardboard box .
many	great	JJ	many	great	0	17	many saw it as a '' heads versus hearts '' campaign , with cautious older scots concluding that independence would be too risky financially , while younger ones were enamored with the idea of building their own country .	on the one side were cautious older scots concluding that the financial risk of independence was too great .
chief	leader	NN	chief	leader	16	17	the result saves british prime minister david cameron from a historic defeat and also helps opposition chief ed miliband by keeping his many labor party lawmakers in scotland in place .	the no vote saves british prime minister david cameron from going down in history as a defeated leader .
scot	scotland	NN	scot	scotland	7	2	former prime minister gordon brown , a scot , returned to prominence with a dramatic barnstorming campaign in support of the union in the final days before the vote .	brown crisscrossed scotland in the final days before the vote .
fauna	animals	NNS	fauna	animal	18	18	aggressive conservation might also mean killing off newcomer species to preserve or make room for local flora and fauna ; in new zealand , rat extirpations have helped kakapos survive .	aggressive conservation might also mean killing off newcomer species to preserve or make room for local plants and animals , as in new zealand , where killing off local rats have helped non-flying kakapo parrots survive .
instead	however	RB	instead	however	29	0	the procedure was set for july but , on the eve of surgery , a routine stress test showed chris had heart problems and he underwent quadruple coronary bypass instead .	however , just before the surgery , a routine test showed that chris had heart trouble .
locate	place	VB	locate	place	19	8	designers used bird-tracking data via cornell university and the audubon society and geographical data from government satellite photos to locate pop-up wetlands where they would do the most good .	bird-tracking data and satellite photos are used to place pop-up wetlands where they will do the most good .
full	entire	JJ	full	entire	12	10	some 50,000 households pay $ 70 annually and an additional 450,000 get full access through distribution partners such as telecom companies and internet providers , a subscriber base that has remained stable despite the chipping away of the paywall , cauz said .	about 50,000 households pay $ 70 annually to see the entire encyclopedia online .
order	goal	NN	order	goal	6	6	solving that mystery is the first order of business for nasa 's mars atmosphere and volatile evolution -lrb- maven -rrb- spacecraft , which arrived in orbit around mars sunday evening -lrb- sept .	solving that mystery is the main goal of nasa 's mars atmosphere and volatile evolution -lrb- maven -rrb- spacecraft , which arrived in orbit around mars on sept .
present	provide	VB	present	provide	10	10	cometary dust and gas that strikes mars ' atmosphere will present a spontaneous chemistry experiment , and should yield insight into the composition of both comet and martian atmosphere .	cometary dust and gas that strike mars ' atmosphere should provide information about the composition of both the comet itself and the martian atmosphere .
upshot	result	NN	upshot	result	1	1	the upshot : bears in yosemite are becoming wild again as older ones accustomed to eating human food die off and younger ones are finding human food harder to get .	the result : bears in yosemite are becoming wild again .
sign	indication	NN	sign	indication	12	5	the incident east of freetown , the capital , was the latest sign that poor communication on ebola by governments and global health agencies has bred public suspicion and resentment , with rumors that the virus is a conspiracy by outsiders to kill people .	it was only the latest indication of poor communication on ebola .
turkey	turkey-syria	NN	turkey	turkey-syrium	20	11	earlier this summer , brian daniels , director of research and programs for the penn center , went to southern turkey near the syrian border to train 20 syrians who want to protect the sites .	brian daniels , who works with leventhal , went to the turkey-syria border earlier this summer to train 20 syrians who want to protect the historic sites .
evolution	trend	NN	evolution	trend	43	20	according to jeremy mayer , an associate political science professor at george mason university in fairfax , virginia , the role of first ladies in the presidential library system reflects their growing policy role , but it also is part of a natural evolution .	according to jeremy mayer , a political science professor at george mason university , this is part of a larger trend .
cohesive	close-knit	JJ	cohesive	close-knit	2	4	without a cohesive group of leaders directing things , '' it 's very difficult to predict '' how the situation will evolve , said chi-keung choy , professor of comparative politics at the chinese university of hong kong .	without a strong , close-knit group of leaders directing things , '' it 's very difficult to predict '' how the situation will evolve , said chi-keung choy , a professor of international politics at the chinese university of hong kong .
wholeheartedly	completely	RB	wholeheartedly	completely	32	17	organizations that work most intensively to promote good nutrition , such as the food research and action center , and most closely with students , such as the national education association , wholeheartedly support the new meal standards and are fighting efforts to water them down .	organizations that work to promote good nutrition , such as the food research and action center , completely support the new meal standards .
bulk	majority	NN	bulk	majority	6	6	but those f-15s still represent the bulk of a so-called air superiority fleet the jets that are supposed to outgun enemy aircraft and gain control of the sky .	but those f-15s still represent the majority of a so-called '' air superiority fleet '' the jets that are supposed to outgun enemy aircraft and gain control of the sky .
degree	place	NN	degree	place	20	8	many worry that as teenagers increasingly join the front lines , violence will become institutionalized in syrian society to a degree beyond what more than three years of civil war has wrought .	they fear it will make syria a harsher place even after the war ends .
mortality	death	NN	mortality	death	12	12	it found that eight of the 60 countries with particularly high child mortality had lowered their rates by more than two-thirds since 1990 : malawi , bangladesh , liberia , tanzania , ethiopia , east timor , niger and eritrea .	it found that eight of the 60 countries with particularly high child death rates had lowered their rates by more than two-thirds since 1990 : malawi , bangladesh , liberia , tanzania , ethiopia , east timor , niger and eritrea .
inclement	bad	JJ	inclement	bad	28	25	in addition to dozens of ponchos , duffel bags and sleeping bags , fulton county schools received two humvees , which district officials say have been helpful during inclement weather .	fulton county schools , for example , received two all-terrain military vehicles , known as humvees , which district officials say have been helpful during bad weather .
serious	huge	JJ	serious	huge	27	17	the persistence of deep poverty in states that have been relatively successful in reducing their overall poverty rates is a vexing problem , one that might expose serious shortcomings in the country 's safety net , according to economists and anti-poverty advocates .	the persistence of deep poverty in rich states that have reduced their overall poverty rates is a huge problem , economists and anti-poverty advocates say .
let	left	VBD	let	leave	31	29	but johnson said he was worried about the people who were in the er on friday , as well as those who might have been exposed to ebola after hospital staff let the patient leave .	but johnson said he was worried about the people who were in the er on friday and about those who might have been exposed to ebola after the patient left the hospital .
print	printing	NN	print	printing	23	25	the need for such prosthetics has spawned a network of volunteer designers , medical workers , artists , engineers , parents and 3-d print enthusiasts who have been outfitting children with prosthetics some with lower-end machines that cost less than $ 1,000 .	the need for artificial limbs has created a network of volunteer designers , medical workers , artists , engineers , parents and fans of 3-d printing .
cumbersome	awkward	JJ	cumbersome	awkward	14	15	younger children do n't always see a need for a prosthetic and find them cumbersome , as they have found ways to function without a limb or hand , he said .	younger children do n't always see a need for a traditional prosthetic and find them awkward , since they have found ways to function without a limb or hand , he said .
minimum-wage	wage	NN	minimum-wage	wage	11	12	washington president barack obama is n't expected to get the federal minimum-wage increase he 's wanted anytime soon , but advocates hope that public support for the issue gets a boost from an unusual set of states this election day .	washington president barack obama has wanted an increase in the federal minimum wage for a while , but he 's not likely to get it anytime soon .
solid-red	red	JJ	solid-red	red	9	9	alaska , arkansas , nebraska and south dakota four solid-red states whose voters often oppose the president 's agenda might be next to raise the wage floor of america 's lowest-paid hourly workers .	alaska , arkansas , nebraska and south dakota four red states that lean toward the republican party and whose voters often oppose the president 's agenda might be next to raise the wages of america 's lowest-paid hourly workers .
everyone	everybody	NN	everyone	everybody	9	7	euless , texas carolyn woahloe said what was on everyone 's mind : some texans are blaming her and fellow liberians for the first ebola case to be diagnosed in the united states .	euless , texas carolyn woahloe said what everybody was thinking : some texans are blaming her and fellow liberians for the first ebola case to be diagnosed in the united states .
pro-gay	gay	JJ	pro-gay	gay	9	9	judges in the cincinnati-based 6th circuit who are weighing pro-gay marriage rulings in kentucky , michigan , ohio and tennessee , appeared more likely to rule in favor of state bans than did the 9th circuit judges in san francisco , who are considering idaho and nevada restrictions on marriage .	they seem more likely to support state bans on gay marriage than the appeal court judges in san francisco .
devastate	ruin	VB	devastate	ruin	3	3	a spill would devastate the local tourism industry , said paul manning , who owns the front porch cafe on the outer banks , where the employees roast coffee and serve up mugs to tourists plotting their day at the beach or where to find the best seafood along the shore .	a spill would ruin the local tourism industry , said paul manning , who owns the front porch cafe on the outer banks .
big	important	JJ	big	important	1	10	another big factor for huff was serving irving 's latino community , which accounts for slightly more than 40 percent of the city 's population of nearly 229,000 people .	bringing this exhibit to irving , texas , was especially important to huff because of the city 's large latino community , which accounts for more than 40 percent of the population .
important	major	JJ	important	major	10	13	bringing this exhibit to irving , texas , was especially important to huff because of the city 's large latino community , which accounts for more than 40 percent of the population .	the city of irving has a large latino community , which is a major reason huff wanted to bring this exhibit to his museum .
see	experience	VB	see	experience	16	18	the exhibit enables visitors to effectively '' walk into the pages of national geographic '' to see peru 's treasures , where gold permeated the culture , she said , adding that she is pleased that the show is going to north texas .	visitors to the exhibit can effectively '' '' walk into the pages of national geographic , '' and experience ancient peruvian culture , where gold played a large role .
filament	strand	NN	filament	strand	9	9	whereas incandescent bulbs use electricity to heat a metal filament , and therefore waste energy by releasing it in the form of not just light but heat , leds more efficiently convert energy directly into light , without the heat .	incandescent bulbs use electricity to heat a thin metal strand called a filament .
light	thin	JJ	light	thin	24	7	whereas incandescent bulbs use electricity to heat a metal filament , and therefore waste energy by releasing it in the form of not just light but heat , leds more efficiently convert energy directly into light , without the heat .	incandescent bulbs use electricity to heat a thin metal strand called a filament .
element	piece	NN	element	piece	2	2	one key element in the new autonomy law is an assurance that the russian language can be used in the public sphere in eastern ukraine .	one important piece of the new law is that the russian language can be used publicly in eastern ukraine , such as in schools , courts and local government .
new	late	JJ	new	late	19	15	a few features , including four transverse ribs carved into the hull , have n't been known historically in new zealand , but have been featured in canoes in the southern cook islands , described in 1913 .	such ribs were found in canoes in the southern cook islands , however , as late as 1913 .
exacerbate	worsen	VB	exacerbate	worsen	4	4	but other factors could exacerbate the threat if the disease is not completely contained soon : no one has studied how long ebola immunity lasts , so although the assumption has been that immunity will last for several years it 's possible that , for example , recovered patients may get ill again next year .	but other factors could worsen the threat if the disease is not completely contained soon .
otherwise	elsewhere	RB	otherwise	elsewhere	20	14	23 , it reported that perhaps 70 percent of patients would need to be placed in ebola treatment centers or otherwise isolated to alter the course of the epidemic .	its study found that 70 percent of the patients would need to be isolated elsewhere to alter the course of the outbreak .
self-consistency	consistency	NN	self-consistency	consistency	41	18	in 2009 seth lloyd , a theorist at massachusetts institute of technology , proposed an alternative , less radical model of ctcs that resolves the grandfather paradox using quantum teleportation and a technique called post-selection , rather than deutsch 's quantum self-consistency .	it resolves the grandfather paradox using quantum teleportation and a technique called post-selection , rather than deutsch 's consistency idea .
always	ever	RB	always	ever	1	0	lokey always hoped to return to study the caves in more detail , and this summer , he finally crossed paths with a dream team of experts who shared his passion .	ever since , lokey had hoped to return someday to study the caves in more detail .
apprehensive	worried	JJ	apprehensive	worried	21	3	and yet the agency is playing what may prove to be the most important role of any in ferguson : persuading apprehensive residents , overwhelmed city officials , angry protesters and frustrated police to sit together and talk .	they are persuading worried residents , overwhelmed city officials , angry protesters and frustrated police to sit together and talk .
town	city	NN	town	city	7	15	in 2013 , mediators visited the small town of geneva , new york , after an officer shot a black man , and demonstrators gathered in front of the police department .	an officer had shot a black man , and protesters gathered in front of the city police department .
far-sighted	long-term	JJ	far-sighted	long-term	4	23	yet thanks to some far-sighted planning by chinese experts at the dunhuang academy , the researchers charged with preserving the caves , and their longtime partners at the los angeles-based getty conservation institute -lrb- which has been working at mogao since the late 1980s -rrb- , the site 's treasures are getting a fresh shot at survival and even more international exposure .	but thanks to chinese experts at the dunhuang academy and their long-time partners at the getty conservation institute in los angeles , a long-term plan has been put in place to protect the treasures of mogao , and also give them more international exposure .
longtime	long-time	JJ	longtime	long-time	24	11	yet thanks to some far-sighted planning by chinese experts at the dunhuang academy , the researchers charged with preserving the caves , and their longtime partners at the los angeles-based getty conservation institute -lrb- which has been working at mogao since the late 1980s -rrb- , the site 's treasures are getting a fresh shot at survival and even more international exposure .	but thanks to chinese experts at the dunhuang academy and their long-time partners at the getty conservation institute in los angeles , a long-term plan has been put in place to protect the treasures of mogao , and also give them more international exposure .
protect	preserve	VB	protect	preserve	31	1	but thanks to chinese experts at the dunhuang academy and their long-time partners at the getty conservation institute in los angeles , a long-term plan has been put in place to protect the treasures of mogao , and also give them more international exposure .	to preserve the caves and paintings , chinese experts at the dunhuang academy partnered with the getty conservation institute in los angeles .
air	airplane	NN	air	airplane	10	7	the student 's father , a marine stationed at naval air station fort worth , was on a frontier airlines flight with infected health care worker amber joy vinson .	the student 's father was on an airplane flight with infected health care worker amber joy vinson .
normal	regular	JJ	normal	regular	22	5	the school district did not close any campuses , but did cleanings wednesday night and again thursday morning , in addition to normal cleaning routines that use hospital-grade disinfectants , courtney said .	the school district already does regular cleanings with products used in hospitals , courtney said .
equity	equality	NN	equity	equality	28	13	heather arnet , ceo of the women &amp; amp ; girls foundation of western pennsylvania , has worked with the science center for years on issues involving gender equity and programming for girls .	she has worked with the science museum for years on issues involving gender equality and programming for girls .
heaven	god	NN	heaven	god	16	9	the water shortages troubling iran , the religious leader suggested , could be a sign that heaven wanted believers to pay a little more attention to matters of the spirit .	the lack of water could be a sign that god wanted religious iranians to pay a little more attention to matters of the spirit , the ayatollah suggested .
parched	thirsty	JJ	parched	thirsty	19	13	concern is mounting about dwindling water supplies across iran , from the densely populated , smog-ridden capital and its parched suburbs to provincial towns and cities to far-flung corners of the nation , much of which is desert .	water is in short supply everywhere , from the crowded capital and its thirsty small towns and cities to distant corners of the nation , much of which is desert .
short	small	JJ	short	small	3	16	water is in short supply everywhere , from the crowded , smog-filled capital and its parched suburbs to outlying towns and cities , to distant corners of the nation , much of which is desert .	water is scarce in the crowded capital city of tehran , as well as in thirsty small towns and cities around the country , which is mostly a desert .
implement	take	VB	implement	take	24	2	if autumn rains do not replenish the reservoirs , the vice president cautioned , water prices could rise and authorities could be forced to implement more mandatory cuts in water usage .	people must take serious steps , the vice president said .
usually	generally	RB	usually	generally	24	22	one of the challenges for the faa 's drone permitting plans is that unlike manned aircraft , which come in standard classes and are usually used for a common set of jobs , drones can come in almost any size and the agency is just starting to see the beginning of their potential applications .	one challenge for the faa is that while manned aircraft regular planes and helicopters come in standard shapes and sizes and are generally used for a common set of jobs , drones can come in almost any size and be used for a wide variety of jobs .
normally	often	RB	normally	often	28	2	drones come in all sizes , and many are smaller than manned aircraft , cheaper to purchase and operate , and can be used in situations that might normally be off-limits because of potential dangers to pilots .	drones are often smaller and cheaper than traditional aircraft .
insurer	insurance	NN	insurer	insurance	0	5	insurer usaa occasionally uses aerial photography after disasters , but drones would n't replace or enhance work the work of piloted aircraft , according to kathleen swain , a staff underwriter at the company and faa-rated commercial pilot and flight instructor .	the usaa , a large insurance company , has occasionally used drones to take photos from high up in the air after a disaster .
increase	growth	NN	increase	growth	6	2	arkansas , notably , saw an increase in native hawaiian and pacific islanders of 151 percent from 2000 to 2010 , thanks in large part to an influx of people from the marshall islands .	arkansas saw growth of native hawaiian and pacific islanders of 151 percent from 2000 to 2010 .
depiction	portrayal	NN	depiction	portrayal	51	31	the push to raise public consciousness began a few years ago ironically , at the smithsonian 's national museum of the american indian even though repeated polling shows a large majority of native americans are not offended by the name washington redskins and that many take pride in the team 's depiction of its mascot as noble , resolute and strong .	it was ironic because repeated polling shows a large majority of native americans are not offended by the name washington redskins and that many even take pride in the team 's portrayal of its mascot as noble , determined and strong .
aspect	feature	NN	aspect	feature	17	19	rarely a day goes by that the post fails to highlight a story promoting one or another aspect of their drive to change the '' offensive '' name .	rarely a day goes by that the post 's writers fail to highlight a story promoting one or another feature of their drive to change the '' offensive '' name .
campaign	drive	NN	campaign	drive	15	22	rarely a day goes by that the post fails to run an article highlighting their campaign to change the '' offensive '' name .	rarely a day goes by that the post 's writers fail to highlight a story promoting one or another feature of their drive to change the '' offensive '' name .
fiancee	girlfriend	NN	fiancee	girlfriend	18	8	whatever the news source , there 's no mistaking that baltimore ravens running back ray rice sucker-punched his fiancee in an elevator and dragged her body into the hotel corridor .	baltimore ravens running back ray rice punched his girlfriend in a hotel elevator .
gunman	killer	NN	gunman	killer	5	1	ottawa , ontario a masked gunman killed a soldier standing guard at canada 's war memorial wednesday , then stormed parliament in an attack that was stopped cold when he was shot to death by the ceremonial sergeant-at-arms .	the killer then fired dozens of shots inside the government 's parliament building , but was shot dead by the sergeant-at-arms posted inside .
feeding	food	NN	feeding	food	26	26	on a recent day in pasadena 's central park , fernando ruiz and michael castillo relaxed at a picnic table as they waited for the weekly feeding program in the park .	on a recent day in pasadena 's central park , fernando ruiz and michael castillo relaxed at a picnic table as they waited for the weekly food program in the park .
packaging	package	NN	packaging	package	23	18	4 will decide the fate of labeling laws for genetically modified organisms , or gmos , the latest fronts in a battle over packaging .	4 , citizens in oregon and colorado will vote on whether companies must tell buyers , on the package , when food has been genetically changed in any way .
vote	pass	VB	vote	pass	8	11	4 , citizens in oregon and colorado will vote on whether companies must tell buyers , on the package , when food has been genetically changed in any way .	4 , voters in oregon and colorado will decide whether to pass laws .
label	labeling	NN	label	labeling	21	24	and in a clever public relations move , ben &amp; amp ; jerry 's , the vermont ice cream company and label supporter , renamed its popular chocolate fudge brownie flavor to food fight fudge brownie to draw attention to the ballot initiatives .	and in a clever move to influence the public , ben &amp; amp ; jerry 's , the vermont ice cream company that supports labeling , renamed its popular chocolate fudge brownie flavor .
textbook	book	NN	textbook	book	19	17	isaiah goulbourne , 16 , and a junior at miami norland senior high school , said there is a textbook waiting for him each day for english , but it never leaves the classroom .	isaiah goulbourne , a junior at miami norland senior high school , said he uses an actual book for english , but it never leaves the classroom .
overcast	cloudy	JJ	overcast	cloudy	4	4	on a chilly , overcast day , the war memorial was thronged with people who had brought flowers , notes or just their thoughts as the capital grappled with the apparent act of terror .	on a chilly , cloudy day , the war memorial was crowded with people .
motion	request	NN	motion	request	34	16	the latest polls show the '' no '' side ahead in maine by a few percentage points , but supporters of question 1 are hoping that a maine judge rules in favor of their motion for an injunction to prevent the state 's wildlife department from using public funds to fight the ballot measure .	yet supporters of question 1 are hoping that a maine judge rules in favor of their request to prevent the state 's wildlife department which is against the ban from using public money to fight the ballot measure .
signing	sign	NN	signing	sign	26	25	but what 's also important , both thornhill and hartline say , is that players know what they are investing in and do n't have anyone signing for them .	but what 's also important , both thornhill and hartline say , is that players know what they are investing in and not let anyone sign papers for them .
review	investigation	NN	review	investigation	30	1	from 1993 to 2011 , those classes required no attendance and required only a research paper that received a 's and b 's without regard for quality , a cursory review often performed by an office secretary who also signed the chairman 's name to grade rolls .	the investigation explained that crowder looked over the research papers and signed nyang ' oro 's name to the grade lists .
critical	essential	JJ	critical	essential	14	11	some support the court 's ruling , calling fluency in the ancient language a critical ability to lead the nation of 300,000 members , many of whom live off the reservation .	some support the court 's ruling , calling fluency in navajo essential to leading the nation of 300,000 members .
influence	impact	NN	influence	impact	13	12	the removal of top predators has been called '' humankind 's most pervasive influence on nature , '' and it is as detrimental in the sea as it is on land .	overhunting and overfishing of top predators has been called humanity 's biggest impact on nature .
detrimental	harmful	JJ	detrimental	harmful	22	3	the removal of top predators has been called '' humankind 's most pervasive influence on nature , '' and it is as detrimental in the sea as it is on land .	it is as harmful in the sea as it is on land .
bigger	larger	JJR	bigger	larger	33	4	consumers prefer predatory fish like grouper , tuna , swordfish and sharks to species lower on the food chain such as anchovies and sardines , providing strong incentives for fishermen to catch the bigger fish .	people generally prefer eating larger predatory fish like grouper , tuna , swordfish and sharks , rather than species lower on the food chain , such as anchovies and sardines .
disease	condition	NN	disease	condition	12	18	morton , a specialist in biochemical genetics , identified danny lapp 's disease as glutaric aciduria type 1 -lrb- ga1 -rrb- , a metabolic disease that attacks the brain with sudden and catastrophic results .	morton , however , identified his disease as glutaric aciduria type 1 -lrb- ga1 -rrb- , a rare condition that attacks the brain .
strike	affect	VBP	strike	affect	10	10	at the same time , morton said , diseases that strike the general population , such as cystic fibrosis and sickle cell disease , are nonexistent among the plain people .	at the same time , morton said , diseases that affect the general population , such as cystic fibrosis and sickle cell disease , do not exist among the plain people .
consecutive	back-to-back	JJ	consecutive	back-to-back	22	19	in 2011 , the congressional budget office -lrb- cbo -rrb- reported that nih 's broad range of activities , large personnel and consecutive funding increases make '' inefficiencies and duplicative or wasteful efforts '' likely .	in 2011 , the congressional budget office reported that nih 's broad range of activities , large staff and back-to-back funding increases make '' wasteful efforts '' likely .
range	number	NN	range	number	15	12	in 2011 , the congressional budget office -lrb- cbo -rrb- reported that nih 's broad range of activities , large personnel and consecutive funding increases make '' inefficiencies and duplicative or wasteful efforts '' likely .	in 2011 , the congressional budget office reported that nih 's large number of programs , large number of workers and large amount of money it has to spend makes '' wasteful efforts '' likely .
curtail	limit	VBP	curtail	limit	20	20	the unusual jurisdiction is a sign of how international investment laws are empowering corporations to act against foreign governments that curtail their future profits , sometimes through policy flip-flops .	the unusual case is a sign of how international business laws are allowing corporations to act against foreign governments that limit their future profits .
declaration	announcement	NN	declaration	announcement	23	3	cook 's acknowledgment , in an essay for bloomberg businessweek , was far more than a disclosure of his sexuality it was a declaration that a business leader is not defined by whom he dates , that companies can innovate whether the chief executive is gay or straight , and that the tech industry is at its finest when its leaders are their true authentic selves , say gay advocates and industry analysts .	cook made the announcement in an essay for bloomberg businessweek .
advocate	support	VB	advocate	support	29	11	after cook 's revelation , advocates say , tech companies that are some of the wealthiest and most powerful multinational companies in the world have a new opportunity to advocate for equality in countries such as russia and pakistan , where they sell their products but where lgbt communities are discriminated against or worse .	after cook 's announcement , they have a new opportunity to support equality .
stage	step	NN	stage	step	6	12	tackling gay rights on the global stage is seen by lgbt advocates as a natural progression for the tech community , where information-driven and forward-thinking companies , often staffed by young and highly educated professionals , have created workplaces that embrace sexual diversity .	fighting for gay rights around the world may be a natural next step for the tech community .
openness	open-mindedness	NN	openness	open-mindedness	12	10	researcher christie smith says that part of the reason for tech 's openness is that tech leaders tend to be more honest about themselves than executives in other industries .	researcher christie smith points to one reason for tech 's open-mindedness .
investment	capital	NN	investment	capital	27	21	he is two years younger than british entrepreneur nick d ' aloisio , who was previously the world 's youngest vc-backed tech entrepreneur when he received an investment for his startup summly , a news reading app , in 2011 , according to business groups and media organizations that track venture investments .	he is two years younger than nick d ' aloisio of britain , the british tech whiz kid who received venture capital funds for his startup summly , a news reading app , in 2011 when he was 15 .
quickest	fastest	JJS	quickest	fastest	30	1	some pitchers , such as mark buehrle of the toronto blue jays and doug fister of the washington nationals , motor along , averaging around 18 seconds between pitches the quickest pace among qualified starters this year .	the fastest pitchers , such as mark buehrle of the toronto blue jays and doug fister of the washington nationals , average around 18 seconds between pitches .
fierce	strong	JJ	fierce	strong	33	33	while researching his 1993 biography '' cushing of gettysburg : the story of a union artillery commander , '' kent masterson brown read cushing 's letters and journals and learned he was a fierce patriot who acted as a father figure to his younger brothers .	while researching his 1993 biography '' cushing of gettysburg : the story of a union artillery commander , '' kent masterson brown read cushing 's letters and journals and learned he was a strong patriot who acted as a father figure to his younger brothers .
recreation	leisure	NN	recreation	leisure	14	14	but today , that water should be available for indoor use , not outdoor recreation , '' said stephanie pincetl , director of the california center for sustainable communities at ucla .	they say that lake water should be available for indoor use , not outdoor leisure .
much	far	RB	much	far	7	6	the census bureau 's numbers show how much the different programs help reduce poverty , and calculate what the poverty rate would have been without the help of government programs .	the census bureau numbers show how far the different programs help reduce the poverty rate .
prohibit	outlaw	VB	prohibit	outlaw	2	11	rather than prohibit use of the technology , kowalski of the data quality campaign suggested lawmakers focus on transparency so parents know how the technology is being used , what data is collected and what safeguards are in place to protect students ' privacy .	kowalski of the data quality campaign does not want lawmakers to outlaw the use of the technology .
intimate	close	JJ	intimate	close	24	9	whether you do your shopping on itunes , amazon , or your local mom-and-pop store , it 's not conducive to the kind of intimate bonding with a favorite artist that comes when you care about something enough to actually purchase it .	and it 's not good for the kind of close bonding with a favorite artist that comes when you care about something enough to actually buy it .
send	communicate	VB	send	communicate	44	29	even a minute miscalculation in its speed could have meant missing a safe landing , scientists had no control of steering the probe once it separated , and the operation relied on flawless communication between the two spacecraft , only one of which could send signals to earth .	scientists were not able to steer the probe once it separated , and the operation relied on communication between the two spacecraft , because only one of them could communicate with earth .
certain	specific	JJ	certain	specific	30	27	this comet-landing expedition has been in the works since 1993 , when the european space agency green-lighted the project and began designing and building the spaceship and lander with a certain comet in mind .	this project has been underway since 1993 , when the european space agency approved it and began to design and build the spaceship and lander with a specific comet in mind .
young	early	JJ	young	early	29	29	scientists are hoping the rosetta mission will provide answers to many scientific questions like what comets are made of , if they are responsible for bringing water to the young earth , what their insides are like , and why their surfaces are so inky black .	scientists are hoping the rosetta mission will provide answers to many scientific questions : what comets are made of , if they are responsible for bringing water to the early earth , what their insides are like , and why their surfaces are so inky black .
electricity	energy	NN	electricity	energy	28	6	that level of alternative energy would exceed that provided by all of china 's coal-fired power plants now and be the equivalent of the united states ' total electricity generation .	if that goal is met , energy from alternative sources would then exceed the energy provided by all of china 's coal-fired power plants now .
pilot	experiment	NN	pilot	experiment	25	6	the researchers , who got $ 200,000 in seed money from the university of washington , plan to start as soon as possible with a pilot study of 30 large , middle-aged dogs .	the scientists plan to start an experiment .
problem	challenge	NN	problem	challenge	1	1	the problem is , human researchers usually have to get close enough within as little as 60 centimeters -lrb- about 2 feet -rrb- to pick up the radio signal from data-collecting devices placed beneath the animals ' skin .	the challenge is that human researchers usually have to get within about 2 feet -lrb- 60 centimeters -rrb- of a penguin to collect the types of information they need .
buck	money	NN	buck	money	29	21	nailing those questions would help educators , policymakers and the public understand what else they need to do besides just shrinking classes to get the biggest bang for the buck .	the answers would help show what else can be done besides just shrinking classes to get the best results for the money .
teacher	professor	NN	teacher	professor	4	18	project star -lrb- student teacher achievement ratio -rrb- was conducted in tennessee from 1985 to 1989 and involved more than 1,200 teachers and almost 12,000 students , according to jeremy finn , of the university at buffalo -lrb- state university of new york -rrb- , a statistician who helped set up the experiment and publish its results .	the study involved more than 1,200 teachers and almost 12,000 students , according to jeremy finn , a professor at the university of buffalo who helped set up the experiment .
effectively	actually	RB	effectively	actually	25	4	but in practice , if one teacher was doing administrative work while the other was teaching all the kids , then the class size had effectively gone up for those kids .	but one teacher might actually be doing paperwork while the other taught all the kids .
training	teaching	NN	training	teaching	7	8	smaller classes worked best when teachers received training in how to better tailor instruction to each student 's needs and when they spent more time getting to know their students ' families .	smaller classrooms worked best when teachers changed their teaching to meet each student 's needs and got to know the students ' families .
instruction	teaching	NN	instruction	teaching	13	8	smaller classes worked best when teachers were trained in how to better tailor instruction to each student 's needs and when they spent more time getting to know their students ' families .	smaller classrooms worked best when teachers changed their teaching to meet each student 's needs and got to know the students ' families .
airliner	airline	NN	airliner	airline	5	5	the pilots of a regional airliner flying at about 10,000 feet reported seeing at least one drone pass less than 500 feet above the plane , moving slowly to the south toward allegheny county airport near pittsburgh .	the pilots of a regional airline flying at about 10,000 feet reported seeing at least one drone pass less than 500 feet above the plane .
metropolis	city	NN	metropolis	city	20	20	the tunnel , discovered 11 years ago under the temple of the feathered serpent at the heart of the ancient metropolis , is the latest piece in a puzzle dating back to before europeans arrived in the new world .	the tunnel , discovered 11 years ago under the temple of the feathered serpent at the heart of the ancient city , is the latest piece in a puzzle dating back to before europeans arrived in the new world .
funerary	funeral	JJ	funerary	funeral	7	30	the newly discovered objects could be '' funerary offerings , '' but given the '' large number of rather plain jars '' they could also be the '' remains of a huge feast , '' cowgill observed .	however , he said , given the '' large number of rather plain jars '' they could also be the remains of a huge feast that was part of a funeral ceremony .
conform	follow	VB	conform	follow	27	16	now missouri farmers , who export one-third of their eggs to california , must decide whether to invest more than $ 120 million in new henhouses to conform to california 's law or stop selling to the largest egg market in the country , said missouri attorney general chris koster .	now they must decide whether to spend more than $ 120 million in new henhouses to follow california 's law or stop selling to the largest egg market in the country , said missouri attorney general chris koster .
break	break-dancing	NN	break	break-dancing	31	31	tricking there 's no dealing with obstacles with tricking , which , according to faircloth , is more about '' complex acrobatic moves , kicking , spins , turns , '' break dancing and similar moves .	tricking there is no dealing with obstacles in tricking , which , according to faircloth , is more about '' complex acrobatic moves , kicking , spins , turns , '' break-dancing and similar moves .
dancing	break-dancing	NN	dancing	break-dancing	32	31	tricking there 's no dealing with obstacles with tricking , which , according to faircloth , is more about '' complex acrobatic moves , kicking , spins , turns , '' break dancing and similar moves .	tricking there is no dealing with obstacles in tricking , which , according to faircloth , is more about '' complex acrobatic moves , kicking , spins , turns , '' break-dancing and similar moves .
inmate	prison	NN	inmate	prison	0	5	inmate ernest williams , serving a 41-month drug sentence , had long stopped asking his family his wife and five children to come see him at the federal detention center miami .	miami ernest williams , in prison on a 41-month drug sentence , had long stopped asking his family to come see him at the federal detention center miami .
enduring	lasting	JJ	enduring	lasting	10	11	the bureau hosted its inaugural daddy-daughter dance to create an enduring memory , one that can carry inmates to the outside world with a different perspective and offer daughters the hope that there will be more such moments .	the prison system hosted its first daddy-daughter dance to create a lasting memory for the fathers and offer their daughters the hope that there will be many more good moments .
ballroom	dance	NN	ballroom	dance	9	2	in a third-floor prison meeting space transformed into a ballroom with a fairy-tale theme , 13 fathers in suits and ties and tuxedos spent two hours with their girls , this long-held tradition unfolding without the harshness of uniforms and visiting rooms and prison walls .	at the dance , the 13 fathers in suits and ties and tuxedos spent two hours with their girls .
cinema	theater	NN	cinema	theater	17	13	three more students who used the cinematic gesture of rebellion against tyranny were arrested at a bangkok cinema 's thursday night showing of '' the hunger games : mockingjay part 1 , '' the latest film based on the dystopian trilogy by author suzanne collins .	three students were arrested in the capital city of bangkok at a movie theater showing '' the hunger games : mockingjay part 1 , '' the latest film based on the trilogy of books by author suzanne collins about a rebellion against a dictatorship .
tyranny	dictatorship	NN	tyranny	dictatorship	11	43	three more students who used the cinematic gesture of rebellion against tyranny were arrested at a bangkok cinema 's thursday night showing of '' the hunger games : mockingjay part 1 , '' the latest film based on the dystopian trilogy by author suzanne collins .	three students were arrested in the capital city of bangkok at a movie theater showing '' the hunger games : mockingjay part 1 , '' the latest film based on the trilogy of books by author suzanne collins about a rebellion against a dictatorship .
broad	great	JJ	broad	great	6	6	the future of young farmers has broad implications for states , from ensuring the safety and security of the local food supply to strengthening rural communities to mitigating climate change and drought , according to holly rippon-butler , land access campaign manager for the national young farmers ' coalition -lrb- nyfc -rrb- .	the future of young farmers has great significance for states , according to holly rippon-butler , a campaign manager for the national young farmers ' coalition -lrb- nyfc -rrb- .
bureaucracy	paperwork	NN	bureaucracy	paperwork	31	30	a member of the choptico-kanawha band of piscataway indians , chris was eager to farm as his ancestors once did , eschewing loans , pesticides , fertilizers , expensive equipment and bureaucracy .	a member of a band of piscataway indians , chris was eager to farm as his ancestors once did , avoiding loans , pesticides , fertilizers , expensive equipment and paperwork .
hope	look	NN	hope	look	21	15	in an increasingly multilingual society , a slew of states are reevaluating how they define and identify english learners in the hope of moving toward a more unified system , education experts said .	in a world where people increasingly speak different languages , many states are taking another look how they define and identify english learners .
cost-savings	savings	NNS	cost-savings	savings	6	7	spurred by the popularity and potential cost-savings of online learning , virtual labs have infiltrated nearly every scientific field , to the chagrin of some who insist that the practical skills learned through conventional lab work are needed to conduct more advanced research .	spurred by the popularity and potential cost savings of online learning , virtual labs have infiltrated nearly every scientific field .
tactile	hands-on	JJ	tactile	hands-on	25	10	paulo blikstein , who directs the transformative learning technologies lab at stanford university , and his colleagues are working to combine technology with a more tactile experience using robotic equipment located off-site that can be remotely controlled with a computer or smartphone .	his group is working to combine technology with a more hands-on experience .
antiquated	outdated	JJ	antiquated	outdated	8	8	christensen and others see muir 's beliefs as antiquated in the face of 21st-century environmental challenges that the bushy-bearded scot could not have imagined : population growth , urban sprawl , demographic shifts , climate change .	christensen and others see muir 's beliefs as outdated in the face of 21st-century environmental challenges .
nature	wilderness	NN	nature	wilderness	29	17	critics also say muir 's vision of wilderness is rooted in luxury and assumes that everyone will have the abundant leisure time of the upper class to go visit nature up close .	it assumes that everyone will have the free time of the rich upper class to visit the wilderness .
correlation	connection	NN	correlation	connection	4	3	critics also see a correlation between the emotional , biblical language of muir 's writings and the demographic makeup of national park visitors and the ranks of the largest environmental organizations mainly aging , white americans .	critics see a connection between the emotional , biblical language of muir 's writings and who makes up both national park visitors and the ranks of the largest environmental organizations mainly aging , white americans .
crude	oil	NN	crude	oil	9	2	they move oil rigs from site to site , crude to pipelines and rail terminals , and dirt and construction materials to build the new roads , homes and businesses needed to serve the exploding population of new workers .	they move oil rigs from site to site and crude oil to pipelines and rail yards .
authorize	approve	VB	authorize	approve	15	10	obama directed his staff to draft an order that requires non-police officials to review and authorize the transfer of equipment , such as small arms and armored vehicles , before it can come to their communities .	it requires officials who are not police to review and approve any equipment , such as small arms and armored vehicles , before it can be sent to their communities .
narrow	thin	JJ	narrow	thin	6	21	a four-legged animal has a high narrow pelvis with the hip bones facing forward .	hers is so strikingly different from the pelvis of a four-legged animal like a chimp , which has a tall and thin pelvis with the hip bones facing forward .
chimp	chimpanzee	NN	chimp	chimpanzee	14	13	hers is so strikingly different from the pelvis of a four-legged animal like a chimp , which has a tall and thin pelvis with the hip bones facing forward .	hers is very different from the pelvis of a four-legged animal like a chimpanzee .
mission	operation	NN	mission	operation	27	7	rather than just invoking the name of '' national security '' and moving on , the white house should have classified the initiative correctly as a humanitarian mission and explained the rationale for this auxiliary mission to the american people .	the white house should have classified the operation correctly as a humanitarian mission .
assessment	review	NN	assessment	review	1	1	that assessment came before the president announced plans to send 4,000 soldiers to west africa , a number sure to grow given the president 's recent authorization of a national guard call-up .	that review came before the president announced plans to send 4,000 soldiers to west africa .
history	historian	NN	history	historian	37	15	most of the african-americans who came to russia were seeking a better life , desperate to flee the social inequality and depression-era hardships that racked america at the time , said allison blakely , professor emeritus of history at boston university who has written a book on the african-american immigrants .	most of the african-americans who came to russia were seeking a better life , said historian allison blakely , who has written a book on the african-american immigrants .
open	public	JJ	open	public	7	10	former first daughter patti davis wrote an open letter to sasha and malia on sunday , noting that she was criticized for an outfit she wore to an event with queen elizabeth ii when her father , ronald reagan , was president .	patti davis , a former first daughter , wrote a public letter to malia and sasha on sunday .
eldest	oldest	JJS	eldest	oldest	3	3	theodore roosevelt 's eldest daughter , alice , who moved into the white house when she was 17 , was a constant source of consternation for observers , wead said .	theodore roosevelt 's oldest daughter , alice , moved into the white house when she was 17 .
policeman	police	NN	policeman	police	26	8	last week , violence , arson and looting erupted in ferguson , missouri , after a grand jury declined to indict darren wilson , a white policeman , in the shooting death of michael brown .	a grand jury there decided not to charge police officer darren wilson .
fund	amount	NN	fund	amount	16	5	the experiment , funded in part by a $ 20,000 grant from the disney worldwide conservation fund , generates a torrent of data : roughly eight to 10 terabytes per year .	the experiment generates a huge amount of data , roughly eight to 10 terabytes per year .
fast	fast-moving	JJ	fast	fast-moving	21	9	the researchers had examined rocks that seemed to be forming at strange slanting angles the kind of buildup you get when fast moving river water suddenly hits a lake and has to decelerate .	those are the kind of rocks you get when fast-moving river water suddenly hits a lake and has to slow down .
decelerate	slow	VB	decelerate	slow	32	19	the researchers had examined rocks that seemed to be forming at strange slanting angles the kind of buildup you get when fast moving river water suddenly hits a lake and has to decelerate .	those are the kind of rocks you get when fast-moving river water suddenly hits a lake and has to slow down .
habitable	livable	JJ	habitable	livable	27	27	now , the rover is finally studying the base of mount sharp , whose sedimentary layers could hold the key to whether mars was a much more habitable planet than it appears today .	now , the rover is finally studying the base of mount sharp , whose sedimentary layers could hold the key to whether mars was a much more livable planet than it appears today .
urgent	urgent-care	JJ	urgent	urgent-care	34	27	abzug , who is also an assistant professor in maryland 's school of medicine , studied 275 children and teenagers who came to a maryland pediatric orthopedist from a community hospital emergency department or urgent care center in the region .	abzug studied 275 children and teenagers who came to a maryland pediatric orthopedist , a children 's bone doctor , from a community hospital emergency department or urgent-care center in the area .
rigid	hard	JJ	rigid	hard	14	13	the splints that are used to stabilize broken bones usually include a strip of rigid material , a wrapping of soft padding and an elastic bandage to hold them in place .	the splints that are used on broken bones usually include a strip of hard material and soft padding .
unexpectedly	surprisingly	RB	unexpectedly	surprisingly	37	38	using a tongue to get a little water into your mouth may seem far less efficient than simply sucking it in , but in 2010 jung and colleagues showed that cats , at least , have an unexpectedly effective way of using their tongues to drink water .	using a tongue to get water into your mouth may not seem like the most efficient way of getting it in , but in 2010 , jung and his research colleagues showed that cats at least have a surprisingly effective way of drinking water .
effective	efficient	JJ	effective	efficient	38	16	using a tongue to get a little water into your mouth may seem far less efficient than simply sucking it in , but in 2010 jung and colleagues showed that cats , at least , have an unexpectedly effective way of using their tongues to drink water .	using a tongue instead of a vacuum to drink water may not seem like the most efficient way to drink , but jung said that some creatures who drink with their tongue have figured out how to do it efficiently .
mouth	tongue	NN	mouth	tongue	8	2	using a tongue to get water into your mouth may not seem like the most efficient way of getting it in , but in 2010 , jung and his research colleagues showed that cats at least have a surprisingly effective way of drinking water .	using a tongue instead of a vacuum to drink water may not seem like the most efficient way to drink , but jung said that some creatures who drink with their tongue have figured out how to do it efficiently .
area	surface	NN	area	surface	16	17	the dogs extended more of their tongues to whack the water with a much wider surface area , then used their tongues to pull the water upward into a column at a blazing rate hitting an acceleration of roughly five to eight times that of gravity when changing direction from downward to upward .	dogs extended more of their tongues , which allowed them to whack more of the water 's surface , then used their tongues to pull the water up into a column at an extremely fast rate the acceleration of water upward was five to eight times faster than gravity when changing from downward to upward .
inequity	inequality	NN	inequity	inequality	5	5	it 's not an easy inequity to resolve , perhaps made all the more difficult this week by the announcement of an agreement between china and the united states to curb greenhouse gas emissions .	this is not an easy inequality to resolve .
reading	time	NN	reading	time	13	19	not long after , on july 18 , 1776 , the first massachusetts reading of the declaration of independence occurred on the old state house 's balcony , as the public gathered on the street below .	not long after , on july 18 , 1776 , the declaration of independence was read for the first time in massachusetts on the old state house 's balcony .
music	concert	NN	music	concert	14	3	it 's possible only because stanford 's internet connection is fast enough and the music slow enough , said chafe , director of the center for computer research in music and acoustics .	chafe said the concert was possible for two reasons : because stanford 's internet connection is fast enough and the music was slow enough .
plummet	drop	VB	plummet	drop	36	20	considered critically endangered by the international union for conservation of nature red list , the cuban crocodile was once found throughout the island , but extensive hunting from the mid-19th century onward caused the population to plummet .	it was once found throughout the island , but extensive hunting from the mid-19th century onward caused its population to drop drastically .
critically	severely	RB	critically	severely	1	21	considered critically endangered by the international union for conservation of nature red list , the cuban crocodile was once found throughout the island , but extensive hunting from the mid-19th century onward caused the population to plummet .	it was once found throughout the island , but extensive hunting from the mid-19th century onward caused its population to drop severely .
aerospace	aerospace-industry	NN	aerospace	aerospace-industry	19	19	just five years ago , drones available to consumers simply did n't exist , said mike blades , an aerospace and defense-industry analyst for frost &amp; amp ; sullivan , a market-research firm .	only five years ago , drones available to consumers simply did n't exist , said mike blades , an aerospace-industry analyst for market-research firm frost &amp; amp ; sullivan .
challenge	task	NN	challenge	task	1	1	the challenge is that they can not touch the cups with their hands and can only use a rubber band attached to several strings .	their task was to build a pyramid using plastic cups , but the catch was that they could not touch the cups with their hands and could only use a rubber band attached to several strings .
ambitious	bold	JJ	ambitious	bold	16	3	investors and entrepreneurs are putting their money and technology talents into farming and they have an ambitious agenda : to make sure there is enough food for the 10 billion people expected to inhabit the planet by 2100 , do it without destroying the world and make a load of cash along the way .	they have a bold agenda : to make sure there is enough food for the 10 billion people expected to inhabit the planet by 2100 , do it without destroying the world and make a load of money along the way .
inhabit	live	VB	inhabit	live	33	16	investors and entrepreneurs are putting their money and technology talents into farming and they have an ambitious agenda : to make sure there is enough food for the 10 billion people expected to inhabit the planet by 2100 , do it without destroying the world and make a load of cash along the way .	they want to make sure there is enough food for the 10 billion people expected to live on the planet by 2100 .
company	venture	NN	company	venture	30	0	vcs have propped up startups such as hampton creek , which sells mayonnaise and cookies that use plant products instead of eggs , and impossible foods , a redwood city company making hamburgers and cheese without meat or dairy .	venture capitalists have propped up startups such as hampton creek , which sells mayonnaise and cookies that use plant products instead of eggs .
innovation	invention	NN	innovation	invention	22	8	in many ways , agriculture is an industry ripe for a silicon valley shake-up farms were historically on the forefront of manufacturing innovation , and farmers have long embraced new technology .	farms were historically on the forefront of manufacturing invention , and farmers have long embraced new technology .
lower	cheaper	JJR	lower	cheaper	21	19	the energy department predicts a slight decrease in gasoline demand next year even though the price is expected to be sharply lower and the economy is expected to grow .	the energy department predicts a slight decrease in gasoline demand next year even though gas is expected to be cheaper .
generally	usually	RB	generally	usually	2	2	oil companies generally keep producing oil from wells they 've already drilled , but lower prices sharply reduce revenue and force them to cut back spending on new exploration projects .	oil companies usually keep pumping oil from wells they have already drilled .
cause	issue	NN	cause	issue	5	8	they have long been a cause clbre in cuba , where they are hailed as heroes and '' freedom fighters '' unfairly imprisoned by the united states .	the cuban five have long been a big issue in cuba , where they are hailed as heroes and '' freedom fighters '' unfairly imprisoned by the united states .
employment	use	NN	employment	use	33	15	heller said it was too soon to perform a full analysis of whether the program paid for itself , as she would need to know whether the program yielded any long-term effects on employment , among other factors .	heller said it was too soon to be certain whether the program was a good use of money .
stop	shut	VB	stop	shut	27	4	one possibility would be to unleash the united states ' own hackers in the military 's cyber command to disable the computers that launched the attack and stop them from doing more damage .	they would try to shut down the computers used in the attack on sony .
highly	extremely	RB	highly	extremely	22	4	though most citizens in isolated , impoverished north korea have no access to computers or the internet , a small stable of highly skilled hackers are believed to work for the country .	north korea is an extremely poor and isolated country in which most citizens have no access to computers .
partner	party	NN	partner	party	31	30	the law , reminiscent of postwar western european restrictions against shopping on the christian sabbath , is the political brainchild of hungary 's christian democratic people 's party , the junior partner in coalition with prime minister viktor orban and his fidesz conservatives .	the law , similar to western european restrictions of shopping on the christian sabbath after world war ii , is the political brainchild of hungary 's christian democratic people 's party , a major political party .
multiple	different	JJ	multiple	different	10	10	they focused on the details , inviting friends to taste-test multiple burger recipes and ketchup packets they purchased from pakistan when they could n't find an afghan brand they liked .	they worked on the details , inviting friends to taste-test different burger recipes and brands of ketchup .
edifice	structure	NN	edifice	structure	28	31	her suspicions led her to speak out on a reservation she says was once known not for air pollution but for its star-filled night skies and majestic stone edifice known as shiprock .	her suspicions led her to speak out on her reservation , a place she says was once known not for air pollution but for its star-filled night skies and majestic stone structure known as shiprock .
grade	level	NN	grade	level	29	21	los angeles after more than 11 years in los angeles public schools , dasha cifuentes still is not speaking or writing english as well as she should for the grade she is in .	after more than 11 years in los angeles public schools , dasha still is not speaking or writing english at the level for her grade .
show	express	VB	show	express	6	6	cartoonists have used the pen to show solidarity with the killed journalists , to stand up for free speech , to reach out , and to mourn the dead .	cartoonists have used the pen to express support for the killed journalists , and to stand up for free speech .
post	charge	NN	post	charge	35	3	for more than 25 years , billington has been the librarian of congress , a title that sounds rarefied , which , in fact , it is ; only a dozen others have held the post since the library began in 1800 .	he is in charge of overseeing the library 's vast holdings .
govern	rule	VB	govern	rule	4	4	washington though they help govern the world 's most important nation , our leaders in washington can be shockingly unaware of how the rest of the world sees us .	washington though they help rule the world 's most important nation , american leaders can be amazingly clueless .
establish	prove	VB	establish	prove	19	19	the cia torture was carried out , moreover , not only to ascertain threats from al-qaida , but to establish a connection between al-qaida and iraq , as a pretext to invade iraq .	the cia torture was carried out , moreover , not only to discover threats from al-qaida , but to prove that al-qaida and iraq were working together .
burning	heating	NN	burning	heating	26	4	the same pollution that blankets china 's cities in stifling clouds makes the country the world 's leading contributor to global warming , caused by the burning of fossil fuels like coal , oil and gas .	global warming is the heating up of the earth caused by burning fossil fuels like coal , oil and gas .
award	grant	NN	award	grant	11	2	he has also raised by $ 1,000 the maximum pell grant award for working-class and middle-class families and changed the student loan system to cut out subsidies to banks providing college loans .	the government grant gives money to students from poor and middle-class families to help them attend college .
parcel	plot	NN	parcel	plot	18	18	kroenke 's bid is different from past proposals : it is the first time an nfl owner , parcel of land and stadium plan have come together in the same package .	kroenke 's bid is different from past proposals : it is the first time an nfl owner , plot of land and stadium plan have come together in the same package .
market	city	NN	market	city	6	7	the nfl has returned to each market that has lost a team in the league 's modern era but not to los angeles , despite two decades of pledges and plans .	the nfl has returned to each major city that has lost a team in the past few decades but not to los angeles , despite years of pledges and plans .
usually	frequently	RB	usually	frequently	27	20	homeless children are typically part of a family headed by a single mother in her 20s who has limited education and a spotty employment history and who usually has a history of trauma , such as domestic violence .	homeless children are typically part of a family headed by a single mother in her 20s without much education and frequently out of a job .
low	small	JJ	low	small	6	12	a 2014 report by the national low income housing coalition found that in no state is a full-time worker earning minimum wage able to afford a one - or two-bedroom apartment at a fair market rate .	a person earning $ 8 an hour can not afford even a small apartment , according to a report .
housing	apartment	NN	housing	apartment	8	13	a 2014 report by the national low income housing coalition found that in no state is a full-time worker earning minimum wage able to afford a one - or two-bedroom apartment at a fair market rate .	a person earning $ 8 an hour can not afford even a small apartment , according to a report .
dull	boring	JJ	dull	boring	18	8	but watching the video of an endless desert and 12-hour shifts can be eye-glazing at times , so dull that many analysts chug sodas and energy drinks to stay awake .	but watching video of a desert can be boring too .
act	fact	NN	act	fact	11	1	almost none of the trail angels consider what they do an act of pure charity ; rather , they think they get as much from the experience as the hikers themselves .	in fact , they think they get as much from the experience as the hikers themselves .
all-important	important	JJ	all-important	important	18	19	xu guihua , of the chinese association on tobacco control , said enforcement of the rules would be all-important , and would require a shift in the culture of china .	xu guihua , of the chinese association on tobacco control , said enforcement of the rules would be very important , and would require a big shift in chinese attitudes .
array	range	NN	array	range	15	14	aside from its regular exhibits , the expansive museum offers a public library housing an array of documents , relics and written words from events dating back more than 200 years , including the lewis and clark expedition and the louisiana purchase .	the museum has regular exhibits , as well as a public library housing a range of documents , objects and writings from events dating back more than 200 years .
road	street	NN	road	street	17	5	on a recent chilly morning , carol snyder of lehighton , pennsylvania , walked along south florissant road snapping photos of the plywood art with her phone as her husband , james , followed along in the car .	she snapped photos of the street art with her phone .
severely	harshly	RB	severely	harshly	32	27	native american groups have vehemently protested serra 's road to sainthood , saying that the natives who built the missions in the 1700s and 1800s were forced into labor and often punished severely .	native american groups have forcefully opposed serra 's road to sainthood , saying the native californians who built the missions were forced into labor and often punished harshly .
vehemently	forcefully	RB	vehemently	forcefully	4	4	native american groups have vehemently protested serra 's road to sainthood , saying that the natives who built the missions in the 1700s and 1800s were forced into labor and often punished severely .	native american groups have forcefully opposed serra 's road to sainthood , saying the native californians who built the missions were forced into labor and often punished harshly .
vehemently	strongly	RB	vehemently	strongly	4	4	native american groups have vehemently protested serra 's road to sainthood , saying that the natives who built the missions in the 1700s and 1800s were forced into labor and often punished severely .	native american groups have strongly opposed serra 's road to sainthood , saying the native californians who built the missions were forced to work and often punished harshly .
make	put	VB	make	put	26	6	instead , obama was proposing higher taxes on the wealthiest americans with the revenue to be used to pay for middle class tax credits and to make community college free .	obama talked about his idea to put higher taxes on rich americans .
shore	side	NN	shore	side	15	22	chicago for violin teacher sarah dupuis , far more than 23 miles divides her north shore students from those she instructs at a charter school in chicago 's north lawndale neighborhood .	chicago for violin teacher sarah dupuis , more than just distance divides her wealthy suburban students from those on chicago 's west side .
journey	trip	NN	journey	trip	22	13	the findings , published in the journal science , reveal a surprisingly savvy strategy that helps these high-fliers finish the grueling southbound journey from their breeding grounds in mongolia to their winter getaway in india or southeastern tibet .	they found that the geese use a very clever strategy to finish the trip south , from their breeding grounds in mongolia to their winter homes in india and southeastern tibet .
ground	base	NN	ground	base	37	19	the researchers found that , rather than fly in a straight line the most direct route to their destination the geese would hug the terrain , ascending to get over a high peak and descending when the ground leveled out .	the scientists found that the birds did not fly in a straight line the most direct route to their base .
severe	serious	JJ	severe	serious	8	11	this warming could cause coastal flooding , more severe storms , and global droughts , climate experts from nasa and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration -lrb- noaa -rrb- said friday .	that may not seem like much , but it could have serious consequences , climate experts from nasa and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration -lrb- noaa -rrb- said .
strong	high	JJ	strong	high	24	1	in a particularly ominous sign , 2014 marked the first time in 25 years that a global surface temperature record was set without a strong warming influence from the pacific ocean current oscillation known as el nino .	sometimes high temperatures on the earth 's surface are caused by el nino : a change in currents and temperatures in the pacific ocean .
atmosphere	climate	NN	atmosphere	climate	29	1	the warming trend can be explained only by including the effects of human activity , including the burning of fossil fuels that add heat-trapping greenhouse gases to earth 's atmosphere , agency scientists said .	the climate scientists said that this warming trend temperatures going up over a long period of time could only be explained if you looked at human activity .
elevate	raise	VB	elevate	raise	21	6	robinson , who turns 19 this month , was connected to the organization 's graduation success program , which aims to elevate graduation rates of foster kids to the same level as their non-foster peers -lrb- currently 75 percent -rrb- by 2017 .	the program 's goal is to raise the graduation rate of foster kids to the same level as their non-foster peers -lrb- currently 75 percent -rrb- by 2017 .
elevate	lift	VB	elevate	lift	21	6	robinson , who turns 19 this month , was connected to the organization 's graduation success program , which aims to elevate graduation rates of foster kids to the same level as their non-foster peers -lrb- currently 75 percent -rrb- by 2017 .	the program 's goal is to lift the graduation rate of foster kids to the same level as their non-foster classmates -lrb- currently 75 percent -rrb- by 2017 .
disarray	chaos	NN	disarray	chaos	5	5	when robinson tired of the disarray in her home life , she hatched a plan : she 'd stay with her aunt who lived nearby until her parents cleaned up the house .	when robinson tired of the chaos in her home life , she came up with a plan to stay with her aunt who lived nearby until her parents cleaned up the house .
delete	erase	VB	delete	erase	17	18	while some artists may look at digital painting as '' cheating '' after all , you can delete mistaken brush strokes hall , who lives in britain , thinks it actually makes artists more daring .	some artists look at digital painting as '' cheating , '' because it makes it so easy to erase mistakes .
make	record	VB	make	record	25	14	but more importantly , the ease of use and always-in-hand nature of a smartphone camera has in many ways democratized photography , encouraging anyone to make a photo diary of daily moments , not just special events or trips .	in the past , most people took photos only rarely , in order to record special events or trips .
adhesive	glue	NN	adhesive	glue	14	8	lahner adapted her mentors ' method to work in cold-water species , eliminating an adhesive that can cause inflammation and devising a way to anchor the prosthetic with fishing line and titanium clips .	she had to find a new kind of glue and a new way to hold the eye in place .
devise	find	VB	devise	find	18	3	to do this , she had to eliminate an adhesive glue that can harm the fish , and devise a way to hold the prosthetic eye in place with fishing line and titanium clips .	she had to find a new kind of glue and a new way to hold the eye in place .
way	kind	NN	way	kind	22	6	lahner adapted her mentors ' method to work in cold-water species , eliminating an adhesive that can cause inflammation and devising a way to anchor the prosthetic with fishing line and titanium clips .	she had to find a new kind of glue .
blue	navy-blue	JJ	blue	navy-blue	20	5	at consuelo navas tovar high school at the fringes of one of caracas ' sprawling slums , students in navy blue uniforms study their english textbooks at grimy desks crammed into a bare-walled classroom .	there , students dressed in navy-blue uniforms are crammed into grimy desks in a classroom with bare walls , studying their english textbooks .
bare-walled	bare	JJ	bare-walled	bare	32	16	at consuelo navas tovar high school at the fringes of one of caracas ' sprawling slums , students in navy blue uniforms study their english textbooks at grimy desks crammed into a bare-walled classroom .	there , students dressed in navy-blue uniforms are crammed into grimy desks in a classroom with bare walls , studying their english textbooks .
ask	put	VB	ask	put	15	2	there was a tall , blond-haired man named zach , who loved to talk and ask questions , and michael , who was playful and cracked jokes , and jimmy , who was so focused that he could label boxes as fast as any worker .	jimmy could put labels on boxes as fast as anyone .
storm	blizzard	NN	storm	blizzard	11	1	tens of millions of americans live in the path of winter storm juno churning along the atlantic coast , which is expected to hit new jersey , new york city , connecticut , rhode island and massachusetts especially hard .	the blizzard was expected to hit new jersey , new york city , connecticut , rhode island and massachusetts especially hard .
fish	hunt	NN	fish	hunt	20	16	if it passes and becomes a state law , it would make it illegal to use a drone to kill fish or any species of wildlife protected by illinois law .	if it is passed and becomes permanent , it would prevent the use of drones to hunt and fish .
point	view	NN	point	view	37	22	he likened using drones for scouting to other surveillance devices , such as stand-alone cameras that hunters use to watch for animal activity or tree stands that allow hunters to see an area from a better vantage point .	parent said hunters already use stand-alone cameras to watch for animal activity and tree stands that allow hunters to gain a better view of an area from up high .
fair	fair-chase	JJ	fair	fair-chase	4	4	in keeping with the fair chase doctrine , illinois already outlaws such conduct as using ferrets to frighten or drive mammals from their dens or hiding places ; having dogs pursue , harass or kill deer ; using lights connected to a vehicle to hunt at night ; baiting deer and turkey ; and shooting most birds when they are not flying .	in keeping with the fair-chase doctrine , illinois already outlaws such conduct as using ferrets to frighten or drive mammals from their dens or hiding places ; having dogs pursue , bother or kill deer ; using lights connected to a vehicle to hunt at night ; baiting deer and turkey ; and shooting most birds when they are not flying .
beach	coast	NN	beach	coast	38	33	because the earth 's magnetic field is in constant flux , the researchers hypothesized that in years when the magnetic signatures of adjacent beaches moved closer together , there should be more nests on the same stretch of beach .	they theorized that in years when the magnetic signatures of adjacent beaches moved close to each other , or converged , there should be more nests clustered together on the same stretch of coast .
unimmunized	unvaccinated	JJ	unimmunized	unvaccinated	26	23	measles is so infectious it spreads through the droplets from a sneeze or cough that a single sick person who walks into a community of completely unimmunized people infects 12 to 18 of them .	measles is so infectious it spreads through the droplets from a sneeze or cough that one sick person walking through a community of unvaccinated people can infect a dozen or more of them .
large	serious	JJ	large	serious	32	22	experts have said the theme park was a perfect incubator because it attracts visitors from all over the world , such as places in europe and asia where measles is still a large problem .	the theme park attracts visitors from all over the world , including places in europe and asia where measles is still a serious problem .
profession	career	NN	profession	career	15	9	many tv shows , such as '' gray 's anatomy , '' make the medical profession seem as if it 's just about surgeons and do not show other key jobs such as equipment repair and medical imaging jobs like x-ray and mri technicians , school officials said .	the school programs let students know about many other career choices , such as equipment repair and medical imaging jobs such as x-ray and mri technician , school officials said .
take	keep	VB	take	keep	7	14	the teenager , who has learned to take blood pressure and perform cpr , said the fact that knowing that ob-gyns make a good living pushed her to endure the rigorous program .	the teenager said the fact that doctors make a good living pushed her to keep with it .
cater	meet	VBP	cater	meet	19	6	paul johns , chief operating officer at south lake hospital in clermont , florida , said the magnet programs cater to the evolving needs of health care , which soon will require more outpatient procedures and physician assistants .	he said the medical sciences programs meet the changing needs of health care , which soon will require more outpatient procedures and physician assistants .
remember	recall	VB	remember	recall	11	7	a memory test , for instance , required the players to remember a list of words immediately after it had been read to them , as well as 15 minutes later .	to measure memory , players tried to recall a list of words immediately after it had been read to them , and then again 15 minutes later .
area	point	NN	area	point	21	9	as crews painstakingly remove remnants of the farm , muldoon rhapsodizes about kayaking and snorkeling in drakes estero , the tidal area where explorer sir francis drake is believed to have made landfall 430 years ago .	as crews carefully remove remnants of the farm , point reyes ' muldoon gushes about kayaking and snorkeling in drakes estero .
extensive	large	JJ	extensive	large	26	15	becker was on a reconnaissance mission , trailing an underwater camera that will help him and the other scientists figure out how to wrench out an extensive network of oyster racks held up by some 4,700 wooden posts sunk into the estero 's sandy bottom .	the camera will help him and the other scientists figure out how to remove a large network of oyster racks .
restoration	recovery	NN	restoration	recovery	6	6	the national park service sees this restoration as a case study for future marine wilderness areas , said erin drake , an outreach specialist for the park service 's national wilderness stewardship program .	the national park service sees this recovery as a case study for future marine wilderness areas , said erin drake , who works for the park service 's national wilderness stewardship program .
exasperation	irritation	NN	exasperation	irritation	7	7	siso 's comments were typical of the exasperation many venezuelans ' expressed after president nicolas maduro 's state of the nation address last week , in which he defended the socialist model of government but offered no immediate solutions for the country 's deepening economic crisis .	siso 's comments were typical of the irritation many venezuelans felt after their president made his annual speech about the state of the country .
covertly	secretly	RB	covertly	secretly	26	25	he grew up captivated by games from '' pokemon '' to '' call of duty , '' and evaded his mom 's screen time limits by covertly playing his game boy after lights out .	he grew up captivated by games from '' pokemon '' to '' call of duty , '' and evaded his mom 's screen-time limits by secretly playing his game boy after bedtime .
change	alter	VB	change	alter	18	7	rather , more of it will fall as rain and less as snow , forcing the state to change the way it manages one of the world 's most complicated water systems .	this change will force the state to alter the way it manages one of the world 's most complicated water systems .
grave	serious	JJ	grave	serious	20	21	but washington immigration attorney david garfield , who took abdulateef 's case pro bono , said a compelling story and grave peril did n't make approval a slam-dunk .	washington immigration attorney david garfield , who took abdulateef 's case pro bono working for free said a compelling story and serious threats are n't enough for a quick decision .
singular	unique	JJ	singular	unique	9	3	the affidavit abdulateef submitted through his attorney is both singular in his experiences and emblematic of the dashed dreams of many iraqis who hope to live in a country where basic freedoms are protected .	his experiences are unique , but they also echo the dashed dreams of many iraqis who hope to live in a country where basic freedoms are protected .
care	health	NN	care	health	21	0	cook county officials say it 's not clear if the adult 's diagnosis is linked to the children at the day care or to the outbreak associated with disneyland , which has grown to more than 100 cases , many of them in california .	health officials say it is not clear if the babies got measles from the adult with measles .
yet	nevertheless	RB	yet	nevertheless	12	0	the garden occupies just a corner of debna 's dirt yard , yet it yields hundreds of kilograms of pumpkins , gourds , green beans , eggplant , red amaranth , beets , carrots , cauliflower , coriander , cabbage , green chili peppers and spinach each season .	nevertheless , each season it produces hundreds of pounds of pumpkins , gourds , green beans , eggplant , beets , carrots , cauliflower , coriander , cabbage , green chili peppers and spinach .
low-income	lower-income	JJ	low-income	lower-income	26	6	it found that while 51 percent of families earning more than $ 60,000 per year reported having a child in sports , only 30 percent of low-income families had a child playing school sports .	yet , only 30 percent of lower-income families had a child playing school sports .
band	music	NN	band	music	35	18	a key part of that improvement has been barnett 's eye toward the future , as capitol scored two of the biggest breakout artists of the year : british singer-songwriter sam smith and australian boy band 5 seconds of summer .	a key part of capitol 's improvement has been barnett 's eye toward the future and for developing music acts that can become the next big stars .
achieve	make	VB	achieve	make	9	14	in addition to the three goals parents can help achieve , the foundation also aims to make school environments healthier and increase the availability of healthful foods in underserved neighborhoods .	in addition to helping parents do their part , the foundation also aims to make school environments healthier and make healthful foods more available .
transmission	spread	NN	transmission	spread	7	7	the concerns include the possibility of disease transmission , the ability of a newly released orca to find food and behavior patterns from captivity that could have an impact on wild whales .	among the agency 's concerns are the spread of disease and the ability of a newly released orca to find food .
pollution	pollution-reduction	NN	pollution	pollution-reduction	11	18	in a development that has troubled health advocates , some local pollution regulators have begun arguing that they should not be penalized if asian pollution is causing local smog to exceed health standards under the clean air act .	recently , some local pollution regulators have begun citing asian pollution as a reason they can not meet pollution-reduction targets .
low-elevation	low-lying	JJ	low-elevation	low-lying	23	18	although estimates vary , recently published studies have found that asian ozone contributes 3 to 8 parts per billion of the pollution in low-elevation parts of southern california , such as bakersfield and los angeles , and up to 15 in high-elevation regions of the west .	recent studies have found that asian ozone contributes 3 to 8 parts per billion of the pollution in low-lying parts of southern california .
send	ship	VB	send	ship	3	2	the country will send 500 million flowers out to other countries for valentine 's day , and 3 out of every 4 flowers given on the special day will come from colombia .	colombia will ship 500 million flowers for valentine 's day .
dwindle	decline	VB	dwindle	decline	9	9	left unchanged , the supply of skilled workers will dwindle leaving some 5 million jobs vacant by 2018 and wo n't keep pace with the demands of a modern economy or the needs of employers struggling to compete .	left unchanged , the supply of skilled workers will decline more leaving some 5 million jobs vacant by 2018 .
dwindle	decrease	VB	dwindle	decrease	9	10	left unchanged , the supply of skilled workers will dwindle leaving some 5 million jobs vacant by 2018 and wo n't keep pace with the demands of a modern economy or the needs of employers struggling to compete .	if nothing changes , the supply of skilled workers will decrease even more leaving some 5 million jobs empty by 2018 .
facility	factory	NN	facility	factory	37	22	since forging this innovative partnership , rolls-royce has provided input on the course work and curricula , as well as new tools and resources to train students on the same machines that are used at the crosspointe facility .	since forging this partnership , rolls-royce has provided input on the course work and trained students on the machines used at the factory .
workforce	worker	NN	workforce	worker	12	10	through talent pipeline management , we can achieve truly demand-driven education and workforce systems to help create opportunities for individuals , ensure a steady flow of qualified workers to enable allow businesses to thrive and grow , and keep our nation on the leading edge of global competition .	through talent pipeline management , we can achieve education and worker training truly based on need , or demand .
vocation	profession	NN	vocation	profession	32	18	in germany , vocational ed students learn both in the classroom and on the job usually attending vocational schools two days and spending three days a week as apprentices in a chosen vocation .	typically they attend vocational schools two days and spend three days a week as apprentices in a chosen profession .
persona	personality	NN	persona	personality	5	5	both versions of parks ' persona the stoic protester and the furious agitator are revealed in intimate detail in a newly released trove of documents that includes 7,500 manuscripts and 2,500 photographs collected throughout her long life .	both sides of parks ' personality the calm , determined protester and the furious agitator for change can be seen in newly released documents .
grandpa	grandfather	NN	grandpa	grandfather	25	13	the narrative begins at an early age , when parks recalls her fear as a 6 - or 7-year-old , '' keeping vigil with my grandpa '' who stood watch with a shotgun to protect their rural alabama home from the ku klux klan .	she recalled her fear as a 6 - or 7-year-old , seeing her grandfather stand watch with a shotgun to protect their home from the ku klux klan , a racist group responsible for attacks against blacks .
mentor	coach	NN	mentor	coach	4	3	he also helps professors mentor low-income students and is busy lobbying against a bill that would repeal in-state tuition for undocumented immigrants , which has been in place in texas since 2001 .	he helps professors coach low-income students .
top	top-secret	JJ	top	top-secret	15	13	the pentagon is poised to spend billions to build a new stealth bomber , a top secret project that could bring hundreds of jobs to the wind-swept desert communities in los angeles county 's northern reaches .	the united states is about to spend billions of dollars to build a top-secret warplane .
crucial	necessary	JJ	crucial	necessary	28	14	as the lobbying intensifies , the coming decision to pick a winner as soon as this spring has set off a debate over whether the new warplane is crucial to national security or a colossal budget-busting waste .	that decision has set off a debate over whether the new stealth bomber is necessary for national security or a huge waste of money .
authorize	allow	VB	authorize	allow	16	17	last week , the chicago park district approved a plan devised by mayor rahm emanuel to authorize the transfer of parkland to the city 's control if the university of chicago is chosen to host the library .	last week , the chicago park district approved a plan devised by mayor rahm emanuel that would allow the transfer of parkland to the city 's control if the university of chicago is chosen to host the library .
concept	design	NN	concept	design	3	1	contracts to complete concept drawings for chinese theme parks bring in $ 500,000 to $ 7 million apiece , with more detailed construction plans priced at up to $ 15 million , industry experts estimate .	american design firms can make $ 500,000 to $ 7 million to plan an amusement park .
respite	relief	NN	respite	relief	35	9	those perusing said that in a city and country still on edge where militias lurk , car bombs explode and the threat of islamic state militants is ever present the book market is a welcome respite .	customers said that the book market offers a welcome relief from bad news in a city and country that is still on edge .
demonstration	display	NN	demonstration	display	15	7	but to a pair of french researchers , the popping of corn presents a powerful demonstration of how the laws of physics apply to everything even a snack food .	the popping of corn presents a powerful display of how the laws of physics apply to everything even snack food .
understand	know	VB	understand	know	4	5	they simply wanted to understand the physical origins of some of its most distinctive traits , like the forces that make kernels jump and the source of the iconic pop-pop-pop sound .	instead , they wanted to know more about what causes popcorn to act and taste like it does .
engineering	design	NN	engineering	design	31	5	even more interesting is that fewer than 1 in 5 engineers in the auto industry are women , according to lindsay brooke , author of the report '' women in vehicle engineering , '' recently published in sae 's international automotive engineering magazine .	she is involved in the design and engineering of the chassis , the vehicle 's frame .
diverse	different	JJ	diverse	different	6	6	she also tests out vehicles in diverse environments around the world including sand , towing and rock-climbing evaluations in borrego , california , desert drills in dubai , and performance drives from mexico city at 7,500 feet to acapulco at sea level .	she also tests out vehicles in different environments around the world .
engineering	project	NN	engineering	project	33	6	in a nod to the often overlooked science behind races like sunday 's daytona 500 , nascar announced friday a commitment to promote '' stem '' the buzzword for science , technology , engineering and math inside classrooms and out .	recently , nascar announced a new project to teach kids the science behind racing .
race	track	NN	race	track	24	11	edwards said that with every lap , scientific data is involved , from tracking the statistical probability of crashing at different parts of the race to the amount of fuel used by the engine at different speeds in various throttle positions .	edwards said that science is involved in every lap around the track .
probability	likelihood	NN	probability	likelihood	16	4	edwards said that with every lap , scientific data is involved , from tracking the statistical probability of crashing at different parts of the race to the amount of fuel used by the engine at different speeds in various throttle positions .	drivers must track the likelihood of crashing at different parts of the race .
develop	grow	VBP	develop	grow	28	21	in recent years , african-americans have started to host and participate in the social events as a way of highlighting the role fathers play in helping their daughters develop self-esteem and feel supported and validated .	over the years , african-americans have started to host dances to highlight the role fathers can have in helping their daughters grow up to feel confident and supported .
study	school	NN	study	school	18	11	his daughter had to choose from three electives : the life of the islamic prophet muhammad , a study of islam 's holy book , the quran , or basic religious knowledge .	his daughter had to choose from three electives or fail the school year .
oath	pledge	NN	oath	pledge	35	21	turkey has long enshrined the secular ideals of founding father mustafa kemal ataturk , particularly in an education system that until recently banned islamic headscarves in schools and made schoolchildren begin the day reciting an oath of allegiance to ataturk 's legacy .	just until recently , the education system had banned islamic headscarves in schools and made schoolchildren begin the day reciting a pledge of allegiance to ataturk 's legacy .
stance	stand	NN	stance	stand	20	17	on friday , hundreds of pro-secular and alevi students and teachers boycotted school to protest the government 's religious education stance , and thousands marched in several turkish cities holding up banners calling for a secular and science-based education system .	hundreds of pro-secular and alevi students and teachers boycotted school to protest the government 's religious education stand .
precision	accuracy	NN	precision	accuracy	21	33	sun began studying with fei in 2003 with a goal , he said , of producing swallow kites with the same precision and designs as his master .	one of them is sun he , a 36-year-old auto mechanic , who began studying with fei in 2003 with a goal , he said , of producing swallow kites with the same accuracy and designs as his master .
comparison	contrast	NN	comparison	contrast	19	1	twelve percent of the world 's land is currently protected in national parks and wildlife preserves , while in comparison , just about 1 percent of the high seas is protected .	in contrast , just about 1 percent of the high seas is protected .
huge	high	JJ	huge	high	23	1	the plan is to increase this number to 10 percent by 2020 and eventually to 30 percent , an ambitious goal considering the huge strides in international cooperation that will be necessary .	the high seas plan is to increase this number to 10 percent by 2020 and eventually to 30 percent .
success	story	NN	success	story	24	23	henson 's son taught him to read and write when the former slave was in his 40s , leading to his autobiography and the success and fame that followed , even a meeting with queen victoria in 1877 .	henson 's son taught him to read and write when the former slave was in his 40s , leading him to write the story of his life .
much	great	JJ	much	great	5	15	a sherpa can earn as much as $ 6,000 for reaching the 29,029-foot summit , a princely sum in a country where the average annual salary is about $ 700 .	a sherpa can earn up to $ 6,000 for reaching the 29,029-foot summit , a great sum in a country where the average annual salary is about $ 700 .
decision	change	NN	decision	change	8	8	a new poll shows most americans support the decision .	a new poll shows most americans support the change .
combat	war	NN	combat	war	3	3	military experts say combat is changing .	military experts say war is changing .
motorcade	limo	NN	motorcade	limo	18	18	outside harper , students lingered in the neighborhood hoping to get a glimpse of the first lady 's motorcade .	outside harper , students lingered in the neighborhood hoping to get a glimpse of the first lady 's limo .
persecution	trapping	NN	persecution	trapping	20	20	genetic testing shows the animals they are finding can be traced to populations in canada that recolonized here once the persecution stopped .	genetic testing shows the animals they are finding can be traced to populations in canada that recolonized here once the trapping stopped .
trapping	persecution	NN	trapping	persecution	20	20	genetic testing shows the animals they are finding can be traced to populations in canada that recolonized here once the trapping stopped .	genetic testing shows the animals they are finding can be traced to populations in canada that recolonized here once the persecution stopped .
ineffective	poor	JJ	ineffective	poor	16	16	they blame the crisis on three things : high hay prices , a bad economy and ineffective government oversight .	they blame the crisis on three things : high hay prices , a bad economy and poor government oversight .
procedure	surgery	NN	procedure	surgery	4	4	no mention of the procedure at any of the meetings christie held that week .	no mention of the surgery at any of the meetings christie held that week .
appearance	show	NN	appearance	show	7	7	during a news conference after the letterman appearance , he said '' there 's always a plan '' to shed pounds .	during a news conference after the letterman show , he said '' there 's always a plan '' to shed pounds .
startlingly	surprisingly	RB	startlingly	surprisingly	3	3	the reviews are startlingly positive .	the reviews are surprisingly positive .
version	model	NN	version	model	2	2	the current version of the osprey also is far safer than earlier ones .	the current model of the osprey also is far safer than earlier ones .
unreal	fake	JJ	unreal	fake	12	12	the wording of the letter intended to recruit the russian official sounded unreal to o ` neill .	the wording of the letter intended to recruit the russian official sounded fake to o ` neill .
freely	easily	RB	freely	easily	12	12	they also want to allow the postal service to raise rates more freely .	they also want to allow the postal service to raise rates more easily .
efficient	productive	JJ	efficient	productive	6	6	it has been rated the most efficient postal service in the world .	it has been rated the most productive postal service in the world .
stigma	result	NN	stigma	result	1	1	the stigma follows them even if they try to apply elsewhere .	the result follows them even if they try to apply elsewhere .
polygrapher	tester	NN	polygrapher	tester	2	2	the first polygrapher said the woman seemed to be lying about drug use .	the first tester said the woman seemed to be lying about drug use .
revenue	spending	NN	revenue	spending	22	22	the towns figured the two-week closure could cost them as much as $ 4 million in lost hotel , restaurant and other revenue .	the towns figured the two-week closure could cost them as much as $ 4 million in lost hotel , restaurant and other spending .
enclave	neighborhood	NN	enclave	neighborhood	17	17	cairo - on the outskirts of the vast egyptian capital , egypt ends and the latest syria enclave begins .	cairo - on the outskirts of the vast egyptian capital , egypt ends and the latest syria neighborhood begins .
live	are	VBP	live	be	1	1	most live in and around cairo , and have arrived in the last year .	most are in and around cairo , and have arrived in the last year .
nuptials	marriages	NNS	nuptials	marriage	3	3	fifty-seven of those nuptials happened between january and march 2013 , according to an al-ahram online newspaper report .	fifty-seven of those marriages happened between january and march 2013 , according to an al-ahram online newspaper report .
onerous	huge	JJ	onerous	huge	13	13	a year with a dry winter can devastate crop output and put an onerous dent in a farmer 's wallet .	a year with a dry winter can devastate crop output and put an huge dent in a farmer 's wallet .
consortium	group	NN	consortium	group	7	7	runsten recently promoted dry farming to a consortium of california farmers .	runsten recently promoted dry farming to a group of california farmers .
system	storm	NN	system	storm	39	39	and yet studies have found -- even with the start of hurricane season looming june 1 -- that as many as two in three florida residents say they have no plan for what they will do if a tropical system threatens .	and yet studies have found -- even with the start of hurricane season looming june 1 -- that as many as two in three florida residents say they have no plan for what they will do if a tropical storm threatens .
manager	expert	NN	manager	expert	5	5	bill johnson is an emergency manager in palm beach county .	bill johnson is an emergency expert in palm beach county .
affix	attach	VB	affix	attach	21	21	brown says while coverings would be of little value in a high-end tornado , and residents would n't have time to affix them anyway , they 'll protect that envelope through hours of hurricane winds .	brown says while coverings would be of little value in a high-end tornado , and residents would n't have time to attach them anyway , they 'll protect that envelope through hours of hurricane winds .
stunning	runaway	JJ	stunning	runaway	5	5	the project has been a stunning success , changing our view of the universe .	the project has been a runaway success , changing our view of the universe .
stunning	big	JJ	stunning	big	5	5	the project has been a stunning success , changing our view of the universe .	the project has been a big success , changing our view of the universe .
runaway	big	JJ	runaway	big	5	5	the project has been a runaway success , changing our view of the universe .	the project has been a big success , changing our view of the universe .
provider	company	NN	provider	company	3	3	bennett 's cable provider makes deals to carry espn and other networks that feature sports .	bennett 's cable company makes deals to carry espn and other networks that feature sports .
feature	show	VBP	feature	show	13	13	bennett 's cable company makes deals to carry espn and other networks that feature sports .	bennett 's cable company makes deals to carry espn and other networks that show sports .
patch	time	NN	patch	time	9	9	but she has a friend going through a rough patch .	but she has a friend going through a rough time .
prospects	ideas	NNS	prospects	idea	8	8	realon says olympic high helps students explore career prospects .	realon says olympic high helps students explore career ideas .
hope	want	VBP	hope	want	3	3	most of us hope to dodge space rocks .	most of us want to dodge space rocks .
hike	raise	VB	hike	raise	9	9	developing the technology to bring home an asteroid will hike costs , warned hubbard .	developing the technology to bring home an asteroid will raise costs , warned hubbard .
runaway	rogue	JJ	runaway	rogue	11	11	the main goal is not to protect the earth from a runaway space rock .	the main goal is not to protect the earth from a rogue space rock .
challenge	trick	NN	challenge	trick	4	4	then there 's the challenge of catching it .	then there 's the trick of catching it .
security	terrorism	NN	security	terrorism	7	7	almost two-thirds of those polled said investigating security threats takes a higher priority than preserving personal privacy .	almost two-thirds of those polled said investigating terrorism threats takes a higher priority than preserving personal privacy .
facility	office	NN	facility	office	17	17	he rented a single-story blue bungalow in waipahu , an upscale suburb 10 miles from the nsa facility .	he rented a single-story blue bungalow in waipahu , an upscale suburb 10 miles from the nsa office .
bungalow	house	NN	bungalow	house	5	5	he rented a single-story blue bungalow in waipahu , an upscale suburb 10 miles from the nsa office .	he rented a single-story blue house in waipahu , an upscale suburb 10 miles from the nsa office .
initiative	program	NN	initiative	program	12	12	the room at manley is part of the school 's restorative justice initiative .	the room at manley is part of the school 's restorative justice program .
thwart	stop	VB	thwart	stop	11	11	activists , ministers and educators are turning to restorative justice to thwart the unrest .	activists , ministers and educators are turning to restorative justice to stop the unrest .
people	protesters	NNS	people	protester	6	6	there were reports that several hundred people were injured .	there were reports that several hundred protesters were injured .
traumatic	serious	JJ	traumatic	serious	21	21	sports like american football and ice hockey get most of the attention when it comes to concussions and other forms of traumatic brain injury .	sports like american football and ice hockey get most of the attention when it comes to concussions and other forms of serious brain injury .
initiative	plan	NN	initiative	plan	10	10	and cargill should soon announce a three-year extension of that initiative .	and cargill should soon announce a three-year extension of that plan .
key	big	JJ	key	big	9	9	and the industry had fallen well short of a key goal .	and the industry had fallen well short of a big goal .
deterrent	hurdle	NN	deterrent	hurdle	7	7	the cost of the sport is another deterrent , experts said .	the cost of the sport is another hurdle , experts said .
deterrent	problem	NN	deterrent	problem	7	7	the cost of the sport is another deterrent , experts said .	the cost of the sport is another problem , experts said .
hurdle	problem	NN	hurdle	problem	7	7	the cost of the sport is another hurdle , experts said .	the cost of the sport is another problem , experts said .
successor	replacement	NN	successor	replacement	10	10	mueller said the bureau already was making plans for his successor .	mueller said the bureau already was making plans for his replacement .
move	vote	NN	move	vote	1	1	the move affects 78 million american adults and 12 million children .	the vote affects 78 million american adults and 12 million children .
model	plan	NN	model	plan	3	3	it 's a model dairy farmers will be more comfortable with , experts said .	it 's a plan dairy farmers will be more comfortable with , experts said .
asylum	protection	NN	asylum	protection	9	9	with wikileaks ' help , snowden has also sought asylum in ecuador .	with wikileaks ' help , snowden has also sought protection in ecuador .
whir	sound	NN	whir	sound	9	9	on some blocks , the noise rises above the whir of air conditioners , the blare of radios and the screams of small children who do n't like insects .	on some blocks , the noise rises above the sound of air conditioners , the blare of radios and the screams of small children who do n't like insects .
host	number	NN	host	number	4	4	at stake are a host of federal benefits and programs , including immigration rights , student loans and taxes .	at stake are a number of federal benefits and programs , including immigration rights , student loans and taxes .
declare	shout	VB	declare	shout	7	7	one by one , they rose to declare their votes .	one by one , they rose to shout their votes .
take	view	NN	take	view	5	5	other republicans had a different take .	other republicans had a different view .
likeness	face	NN	likeness	face	2	2	obama 's likeness appeared everywhere .	obama 's face appeared everywhere .
hopelessly	far	RB	hopelessly	far	9	9	for common laborers like esmatullah , the amount is hopelessly out of reach .	for common laborers like esmatullah , the amount is far out of reach .
routinely	often	RB	routinely	often	2	2	guest lists routinely number in the hundreds .	guest lists often number in the hundreds .
relish	enjoy	VBP	relish	enjoy	1	1	families relish outdoing their friends and neighbors with bigger , pricier receptions .	families enjoy outdoing their friends and neighbors with bigger , pricier receptions .
move	sell	VB	move	sell	12	12	as for gian , she still had a lot of fins to move .	as for gian , she still had a lot of fins to sell .
tumultuous	rocky	JJ	tumultuous	rocky	6	6	new york -- romance can be tumultuous , and no one knows that better than the statue of liberty .	new york -- romance can be rocky , and no one knows that better than the statue of liberty .
sole	only	JJ	sole	only	3	3	the island 's sole resident is the 127-year-old woman who symbolizes freedom , from her shimmering torch to the broken chain at her feet .	the island 's only resident is the 127-year-old woman who symbolizes freedom , from her shimmering torch to the broken chain at her feet .
pedestal	base	NN	pedestal	base	6	6	the walkways and railings surrounding her pedestal were a total loss .	the walkways and railings surrounding her base were a total loss .
turbulent	hard	JJ	turbulent	hard	7	7	the past dozen years have been especially turbulent for liberty and for those who yearn to get close to her .	the past dozen years have been especially hard for liberty and for those who yearn to get close to her .
materialistic	greedy	JJ	materialistic	greedy	8	8	they 've been called spoiled , irresponsible , materialistic , lazy and confused .	they 've been called spoiled , irresponsible , greedy , lazy and confused .
confirm	echo	VBP	confirm	echo	3	3	interviews with 20-somethings confirm their unhappiness .	interviews with 20-somethings echo their unhappiness .
material	seaweed	NN	material	seaweed	8	8	they lay on soft-looking green beds of the material on shore .	they lay on soft-looking green beds of the seaweed on shore .
mass	mound	NN	mass	mound	7	7	he buried his feet into a soft mass of the seaweed on the shore .	he buried his feet into a soft mound of the seaweed on the shore .
expansive	large	JJ	expansive	large	13	13	both were constructed behind barbed-wire fences and double security doors at northrop 's expansive facility in palmdale , calif .	both were constructed behind barbed-wire fences and double security doors at northrop 's large facility in palmdale , calif .
franchise	team	NN	franchise	team	16	16	a onetime point of pride for the new england patriots has suddenly turned against the nfl franchise .	a onetime point of pride for the new england patriots has suddenly turned against the nfl team .
slaying	death	NN	slaying	death	7	7	hernandez has pleaded not guilty in the slaying of 27-year-old odin lloyd and is being held without bail in a massachusetts jail .	hernandez has pleaded not guilty in the death of 27-year-old odin lloyd and is being held without bail in a massachusetts jail .
prion	prison	NN	prion	prison	5	5	clarett spent 3-1\/2 years in prion on robbery and gun charges .	clarett spent 3-1\/2 years in prison on robbery and gun charges .
gala	celebration	NN	gala	celebration	7	7	washington -- it was a white house gala with the razzle-dazzle of a real state dinner .	washington -- it was a white house celebration with the razzle-dazzle of a real state dinner .
departure	change	NN	departure	change	4	4	that 's a big departure from the weather channel 's early days .	that 's a big change from the weather channel 's early days .
landmark	important	JJ	landmark	important	9	9	evers and till are african americans whose killings were landmark events in the civil rights struggle in the 1950s and 1960s .	evers and till are african americans whose killings were important events in the civil rights struggle in the 1950s and 1960s .
furor	debate	NN	furor	debate	1	1	the furor reached all the way to the white house .	the debate reached all the way to the white house .
prey	animal	NN	prey	animal	15	15	los angeles -- the tyrannosaurus rex from the movie '' jurassic park '' chases any prey that moves .	los angeles -- the tyrannosaurus rex from the movie '' jurassic park '' chases any animal that moves .
ardently	strongly	RB	ardently	strongly	5	5	experts in both camps have ardently defended their positions .	experts in both camps have strongly defended their positions .
quirky	strange	JJ	quirky	strange	4	4	the woodrat 's own quirky behavior has n't helped .	the woodrat 's own strange behavior has n't helped .
unprecedented	new	JJ	unprecedented	new	12	12	the idea of transferring woodrats from one state to another is not unprecedented .	the idea of transferring woodrats from one state to another is not new .
base	foot	NN	base	foot	19	19	if he succeeds , bergen 's '' boulder bunnies '' will remain a fixture amid the rubble at the base of the palisades .	if he succeeds , bergen 's '' boulder bunnies '' will remain a fixture amid the rubble at the foot of the palisades .
investigate	search	VB	investigate	search	7	7	now they have whole new areas to investigate .	now they have whole new areas to search .
shredded	torn	JJ	shredded	torn	1	1	a shredded mail bag with the lock still on it .	a torn mail bag with the lock still on it .
evacuate	leave	VB	evacuate	leave	8	8	faa rules say passengers should be able to evacuate the aircraft in 90 seconds , even if some exits are blocked .	faa rules say passengers should be able to leave the aircraft in 90 seconds , even if some exits are blocked .
compartment	area	NN	compartment	area	6	6	also , materials inside the passenger compartment are designed not to crack and create sharp surfaces .	also , materials inside the passenger area are designed not to crack and create sharp surfaces .
coalition	group	NN	coalition	group	6	6	the american wild horse preservation campaign coalition criticized the bureau 's plans .	the american wild horse preservation campaign group criticized the bureau 's plans .
meet	follow	VB	meet	follow	8	8	they have said before that people had to meet immigration rules to enter the country .	they have said before that people had to follow immigration rules to enter the country .
ignite	start	VB	ignite	start	6	6	the new labeling rules also could ignite a fight with canada .	the new labeling rules also could start a fight with canada .
tortuous	difficult	JJ	tortuous	difficult	3	3	labeling has become tortuous for the agriculture department .	labeling has become difficult for the agriculture department .
onerous	hard	JJ	onerous	hard	9	9	cattle producers say the new rules will be particularly onerous for ranchers and meat companies in border states such as texas , the nation 's top beef-exporting state .	cattle producers say the new rules will be particularly hard for ranchers and meat companies in border states such as texas , the nation 's top beef-exporting state .
pilgrimage	trip	NN	pilgrimage	trip	11	11	it was the most political message yet in the pope 's pilgrimage to brazil .	it was the most political message yet in the pope 's trip to brazil .
achieve	fly	VB	achieve	fly	10	10	he says it will be difficult for non-military pilots to achieve that many hours .	he says it will be difficult for non-military pilots to fly that many hours .
designation	label	NN	designation	label	1	1	the designation applies only to federal land or projects needing federal permits , spokesman mole said .	the label applies only to federal land or projects needing federal permits , spokesman mole said .
ecosystem	community	NN	ecosystem	community	9	9	as such , they are part of a mountain ecosystem that improves air and water quality .	as such , they are part of a mountain community that improves air and water quality .
phase	hearing	NN	phase	hearing	2	2	the sentencing phase will begin wednesday at fort meade , maryland .	the sentencing hearing will begin wednesday at fort meade , maryland .
surreal	unusual	JJ	surreal	unusual	19	19	band-e amir national park , afghanistan -- of all the effects of war on afghanistan , among the most surreal -- and perhaps the happiest -- is swan boats .	band-e amir national park , afghanistan -- of all the effects of war on afghanistan , among the most unusual -- and perhaps the happiest -- is swan boats .
particularly	very	RB	particularly	very	3	3	the park is particularly special for women and children .	the park is very special for women and children .
boon	benefit	NN	boon	benefit	15	15	it also has approved the park 's first women rangers , which will be a boon for female visitors .	it also has approved the park 's first women rangers , which will be a benefit for female visitors .
multitude	number	NN	multitude	number	10	10	the goal is to work out the answers to a multitude of technical questions that must be resolved to make the project work .	the goal is to work out the answers to a number of technical questions that must be resolved to make the project work .
project	idea	NN	project	idea	1	1	the project calls for a fleet of hundreds or even thousands of balloons that will float twice as high as most jetliners fly , in a circle around the earth .	the idea calls for a fleet of hundreds or even thousands of balloons that will float twice as high as most jetliners fly , in a circle around the earth .
ethanol	oil	NN	ethanol	oil	9	9	they were piled 20 feet high and filled with ethanol for preservation .	they were piled 20 feet high and filled with oil for preservation .
ultimate	real	JJ	ultimate	real	1	1	the ultimate goal in cataloging the collection is to aid this wide range of research .	the real goal in cataloging the collection is to aid this wide range of research .
physiological	physical	JJ	physiological	physical	6	6	they say there might be a physiological link between heat and acting on anger .	they say there might be a physical link between heat and acting on anger .
campaign	effort	NN	campaign	effort	11	11	after the newspaper published the story , mlb launched an all-out campaign to build cases against the players .	after the newspaper published the story , mlb launched an all-out effort to build cases against the players .
ambitious	big	JJ	ambitious	big	2	2	there are ambitious plans to get the word out about the hill .	there are big plans to get the word out about the hill .
futilely	unsuccessfully	RB	futilely	unsuccessfully	21	21	young leon began having nightmares in which he was escaping the nazis in a big vat of chocolate as his friends futilely tried to get in .	young leon began having nightmares in which he was escaping the nazis in a big vat of chocolate as his friends unsuccessfully tried to get in .
produce	gather	VBP	produce	gather	2	2	the cubes produce information on more than 70 different things .	the cubes gather information on more than 70 different things .
get	hear	VB	get	hear	12	12	it 's all part of the text kills plan to make students get its message .	it 's all part of the text kills plan to make students hear its message .
veer	drive	VB	veer	drive	5	5	everybody else is watching them veer off the track and hit a wall , and their car is spinning around .	everybody else is watching them drive off the track and hit a wall , and their car is spinning around .
rental	home	NN	rental	home	15	15	about 20 men , women and children left behind everything they brought to their vacation rental .	about 20 men , women and children left behind everything they brought to their vacation home .
capsule	car	NN	capsule	car	14	14	los angeles -- imagine paying $ 20 and sitting down inside a space age capsule in los angeles .	los angeles -- imagine paying $ 20 and sitting down inside a space age car in los angeles .
hyperbolic	exaggerated	JJ	hyperbolic	exaggerated	16	16	if it were by anyone else , monday 's display probably would be dismissed as the hyperbolic ramblings of a crank .	if it were by anyone else , monday 's display probably would be dismissed as the exaggerated ramblings of a crank .
industrialist	businessman	NN	industrialist	businessman	6	6	but musk is a straight-talking modern-day industrialist .	but musk is a straight-talking modern-day businessman .
byzantine	complicated	JJ	byzantine	complicated	21	21	transportation experts warned that musk 's proposal , even if technically sound , would still have to operate in california 's byzantine political system .	transportation experts warned that musk 's proposal , even if technically sound , would still have to operate in california 's complicated political system .
variety	grape	NN	variety	grape	1	1	a variety named sweet sapphire comes as round and fat as d batteries .	a grape named sweet sapphire comes as round and fat as d batteries .
fetch	cost	VB	fetch	cost	4	4	the cotton candy could fetch around $ 6 a pound .	the cotton candy could cost around $ 6 a pound .
texture	feel	NN	texture	feel	13	13	that variety was developed by the usda and is known for its crisp texture and juiciness .	that variety was developed by the usda and is known for its crisp feel and juiciness .
documentation	proof	NN	documentation	proof	7	7	legally , they ca n't ask for documentation .	legally , they ca n't ask for proof .
charge	control	NN	charge	control	5	5	the military is back in charge , and many egyptians support that .	the military is back in control , and many egyptians support that .
control	charge	NN	control	charge	5	5	the military is back in control , and many egyptians support that .	the military is back in charge , and many egyptians support that .
dispute	standoff	NN	dispute	standoff	11	11	negotiations between the muslim brotherhood and the military to end the dispute began earlier this month .	negotiations between the muslim brotherhood and the military to end the standoff began earlier this month .
lustrous	shiny	JJ	lustrous	shiny	11	11	leather workers probably scraped the tools against hides to create more lustrous , waterproof leather .	leather workers probably scraped the tools against hides to create more shiny , waterproof leather .
artifact	piece	NN	artifact	piece	8	8	further examination under a microscope revealed that the artifact , less than a centimeter long , had a worn edge and a polished surface .	further examination under a microscope revealed that the piece , less than a centimeter long , had a worn edge and a polished surface .
complex	advanced	JJ	complex	advanced	7	7	the findings add to earlier evidence of complex behavior in neanderthals .	the findings add to earlier evidence of advanced behavior in neanderthals .
simulator	machine	NN	simulator	machine	1	1	the simulator is used to teach soldiers how to fly the scaneagle .	the machine is used to teach soldiers how to fly the scaneagle .
tendency	likelihood	NN	tendency	likelihood	15	15	but christie said in the interview he believed that gay people were born with the tendency to be homosexual .	but christie said in the interview he believed that gay people were born with the likelihood to be homosexual .
position	stretch	NN	position	stretch	13	13	that was cool , '' said 29-year-old kristy montgomery after completing a tree position .	that was cool , '' said 29-year-old kristy montgomery after completing a tree stretch .
session	class	NN	session	class	8	8	after a buddy persuaded him to attend a session , he instantly became a fan .	after a buddy persuaded him to attend a class , he instantly became a fan .
complaint	lawsuit	NN	complaint	lawsuit	3	3	according to the complaint , leo purchased the snacks monthly from three stores .	according to the lawsuit , leo purchased the snacks monthly from three stores .
parole	release	NN	parole	release	4	4	manning can apply for parole after serving one-third of his sentence .	manning can apply for release after serving one-third of his sentence .
shave	cut	VB	shave	cut	6	6	good behavior in prison could further shave time from his sentence .	good behavior in prison could further cut time from his sentence .
resilient	durable	JJ	resilient	durable	15	15	that 's why scientists picked the tiny baddeleyites : once they form , they are resilient little minerals .	that 's why scientists picked the tiny baddeleyites : once they form , they are durable little minerals .
further	also	RB	further	also	2	2	the study further shows that the shergottites were n't old rocks , humayun said .	the study also shows that the shergottites were n't old rocks , humayun said .
tension	concern	NN	tension	concern	9	9	she said she remembers there being an air of tension then .	she said she remembers there being an air of concern then .
socialize	play	VB	socialize	play	18	18	ruiz 's older daughter used to spend her days with her grandmother and rarely had the chance to socialize with other children .	ruiz 's older daughter used to spend her days with her grandmother and rarely had the chance to play with other children .
opposition	rebel	NN	opposition	rebel	15	15	there was no word on whether anything that the inspectors learned monday supported or contradicted opposition allegations .	there was no word on whether anything that the inspectors learned monday supported or contradicted rebel allegations .
contingent	group	NN	contingent	group	2	2	an opposition contingent in muadhamiya was waiting when the inspectors arrived , according to an activist in the town reached via skype .	an opposition group in muadhamiya was waiting when the inspectors arrived , according to an activist in the town reached via skype .
activist	person	NN	activist	person	9	9	they also took blood and hair samples , the activist said .	they also took blood and hair samples , the person said .
people	teens	NNS	people	teens	6	6	the mission is to help poor people living in cities succeed .	the mission is to help poor teens living in cities succeed .
philosophy	belief	NN	philosophy	belief	5	5	it is based on a philosophy that character -- self-control , conscientiousness and tenacity -- is a better predictor of success than grades and tests , particularly among low-income students .	it is based on a belief that character -- self-control , conscientiousness and tenacity -- is a better predictor of success than grades and tests , particularly among low-income students .
source	head	NN	source	head	7	7	it crept within a mile of the source of the hetch hetchy water system .	it crept within a mile of the head of the hetch hetchy water system .
encouraging	good	JJ	encouraging	good	4	4	however , the one encouraging sign was that the blaze had spread twice as quickly the week before .	however , the one good sign was that the blaze had spread twice as quickly the week before .
muse	inspiration	NN	muse	inspiration	5	5	morgan felt lost without his muse , but even more determined .	morgan felt lost without his inspiration , but even more determined .
iconic	memorable	JJ	iconic	memorable	6	6	the 1963 protest became the most iconic moment of the civil rights movement .	the 1963 protest became the most memorable moment of the civil rights movement .
commemoration	event	NN	commemoration	event	1	1	the commemoration wednesday was a more solemn affair .	the event wednesday was a more solemn affair .
legitimate	actual	JJ	legitimate	actual	4	4	over the years , legitimate outrage over discrimination devolved into '' excuse-making for criminal behavior , '' obama said .	over the years , actual outrage over discrimination devolved into '' excuse-making for criminal behavior , '' obama said .
make	earn	VB	make	earn	10	10	restaurants used to hire mostly younger people just trying to make pocket money .	restaurants used to hire mostly younger people just trying to earn pocket money .
donor	woman	NN	donor	woman	2	2	one elderly donor had saved seeds in a sock in her drawer for decades , said auger .	one elderly woman had saved seeds in a sock in her drawer for decades , said auger .
compound	fort	NN	compound	fort	21	21	at universal studios hollywood , riders of the new transformers : the ride-3d line up in an area resembling a military compound .	at universal studios hollywood , riders of the new transformers : the ride-3d line up in an area resembling a military fort .
venerable	gruff	JJ	venerable	gruff	5	5	the voice was recorded by venerable comedian don rickles .	the voice was recorded by gruff comedian don rickles .
security	police	NN	security	police	1	1	jordanian security forces in three armored cars stood by impassively .	jordanian police forces in three armored cars stood by impassively .
debate	fighting	NN	debate	fighting	6	6	the decision comes after years of debate .	the decision comes after years of fighting .
out	down	RP	out	down	7	7	the picture looks even worse when broken out by race .	the picture looks even worse when broken down by race .
statistic	number	NN	statistic	number	10	10	hall points to a troubling trend within an already worrisome statistic .	hall points to a troubling trend within an already worrisome number .
top	great	JJ	top	great	7	7	jose vasconcelos was one of mexico 's top thinkers in the early 20th century .	jose vasconcelos was one of mexico 's great thinkers in the early 20th century .
administrator	head	NN	administrator	head	3	3	gina mccarthy became administrator of the environmental protection agency -lrb- epa -rrb- last month .	gina mccarthy became head of the environmental protection agency -lrb- epa -rrb- last month .
trump	outweigh	VB	trump	outweigh	6	6	they said environmental politics should n't trump science .	they said environmental politics should n't outweigh science .
innovative	smart	JJ	innovative	smart	6	6	the idea is either horrible or innovative .	the idea is either horrible or smart .
product	drink	NN	product	drink	9	9	monster beverage has repeatedly denied any link between its product and fournier 's death .	monster beverage has repeatedly denied any link between its drink and fournier 's death .
landscape	land	NN	landscape	land	8	8	ocean currents and rivers are constantly rearranging the landscape .	ocean currents and rivers are constantly rearranging the land .
shell	cap	NN	shell	cap	8	8	nonetheless , elmhurst college players who wear the shell during practice say it has made a big difference .	nonetheless , elmhurst college players who wear the cap during practice say it has made a big difference .
perspective	story	NN	perspective	story	17	17	head over to nearby addison trail high school , though , and you 'll get a different perspective .	head over to nearby addison trail high school , though , and you 'll get a different story .
bolster	increase	VB	bolster	increase	21	21	into this storm have stepped a few small companies that sell add-on helmet pads , saying they 're a way to bolster protection .	into this storm have stepped a few small companies that sell add-on helmet pads , saying they 're a way to increase protection .
extreme	major	JJ	extreme	major	12	12	such tests are good at showing a helmet 's power to prevent extreme damage to the head .	such tests are good at showing a helmet 's power to prevent major damage to the head .
shutter	button	NN	shutter	button	20	20	a '' burst mode '' can take 10 frames per second as long as you hold your finger on the shutter .	a '' burst mode '' can take 10 frames per second as long as you hold your finger on the button .
tradition	culture	NN	tradition	culture	17	17	he said he 'd explained to his class that chinese characters were a central part of chinese tradition .	he said he 'd explained to his class that chinese characters were a central part of chinese culture .
thwart	block	VB	thwart	block	14	14	the party has a much larger majority in the state house , enough to thwart any legislative effort to overturn the gun laws .	the party has a much larger majority in the state house , enough to block any legislative effort to overturn the gun laws .
effort	plan	NN	effort	plan	9	9	but a new york appellate court shot down his effort to stop restaurants from selling soft drinks in cups larger than 16 ounces .	but a new york appellate court shot down his plan to stop restaurants from selling soft drinks in cups larger than 16 ounces .
stress	worry	NN	stress	worry	33	33	bride kanika , who admits to being a '' riot of emotions '' right now , said she suggested the family stop obsessing about the gold , given all the added expense and stress .	bride kanika , who admits to being a '' riot of emotions '' right now , said she suggested the family stop obsessing about the gold , given all the added expense and worry .
accession	agreement	NN	accession	agreement	26	26	in interviews on russian television last week , assad had said syria would reveal the details of its chemical weapons stockpiles a month after its formal accession to the convention on chemical weapons , the treaty that bans their existence .	in interviews on russian television last week , assad had said syria would reveal the details of its chemical weapons stockpiles a month after its formal agreement to the convention on chemical weapons , the treaty that bans their existence .
complex	facility	NN	complex	facility	11	11	as emergency vehicles and law enforcement officers flooded streets around the complex , a helicopter hovered overhead .	as emergency vehicles and law enforcement officers flooded streets around the facility , a helicopter hovered overhead .
available	free	JJ	available	free	2	2	it 's available to all native americans , no matter their income or if they are members of the club .	it 's free to all native americans , no matter their income or if they are members of the club .
hull	ship	NN	hull	ship	6	6	the risk was that the rusting hull could snap or sink entirely .	the risk was that the rusting ship could snap or sink entirely .
remains	bodies	NNS	remains	body	11	11	rescuers were expected to board the vessel to look for their remains .	rescuers were expected to board the vessel to look for their bodies .
executive	boss	NN	executive	boss	8	8	four other crew members and a costa crociere executive were given jail terms ranging from 18 to 34 months .	four other crew members and a costa crociere boss were given jail terms ranging from 18 to 34 months .
technology	machine	NN	technology	machine	10	10	he insists no one can match the company 's afp technology .	he insists no one can match the company 's afp machine .
status	place	NN	status	place	11	11	it was widely seen in brazil as affirmation of its rising status on the international stage .	it was widely seen in brazil as affirmation of its rising place on the international stage .
engage	meet	VB	engage	meet	13	13	when one leg starts to jump , the gear teeth on that leg engage with the gear teeth on the other .	when one leg starts to jump , the gear teeth on that leg meet with the gear teeth on the other .
valuable	expensive	JJ	valuable	expensive	8	8	the artist 's paintings are among the most valuable in the world .	the artist 's paintings are among the most expensive in the world .
artwork	painting	NN	artwork	painting	1	1	the artwork will be on display at the museum beginning sept .	the painting will be on display at the museum beginning sept .
accompany	take	VB	accompany	take	3	3	her mother will accompany her onto the field if cassidy is a finalist .	her mother will take her onto the field if cassidy is a finalist .
transition	change	NN	transition	change	2	2	cassidy 's transition has forced her to grow up faster than other kids , her mother said while dicing tomatoes in the family kitchen .	cassidy 's change has forced her to grow up faster than other kids , her mother said while dicing tomatoes in the family kitchen .
mayhem	attack	NN	mayhem	attack	4	4	witnesses who escaped the mayhem said gunmen fired at people from an upper floor .	witnesses who escaped the attack said gunmen fired at people from an upper floor .
incur	experience	VBP	incur	experience	14	14	aviation authorities have also threatened airlines with penalties and loss of routes if they incur excessive delays .	aviation authorities have also threatened airlines with penalties and loss of routes if they experience excessive delays .
influential	important	JJ	influential	important	8	8	that would undermine his negotiating leverage and make influential members of congress upset .	that would undermine his negotiating leverage and make important members of congress upset .
futile	doomed	JJ	futile	doomed	8	8	stephens views trail life as a desperate and futile escape to a past that no longer exists .	stephens views trail life as a desperate and doomed escape to a past that no longer exists .
defection	stream	NN	defection	stream	10	10	so far , there 's no sign of a mass defection of boy scouts to trail life .	so far , there 's no sign of a mass stream of boy scouts to trail life .
policy	rule	NN	policy	rule	2	2	abercrombie 's policy changes will remain in effect for three years .	abercrombie 's rule changes will remain in effect for three years .
disaster	earthquake	NN	disaster	earthquake	1	1	the disaster left vast fields of mud , bricks , broken furniture , battered household items and traditional string beds .	the earthquake left vast fields of mud , bricks , broken furniture , battered household items and traditional string beds .
impeccable	incredible	JJ	impeccable	incredible	5	5	the board 's timing was impeccable .	the board 's timing was incredible .
impeccable	amazing	JJ	impeccable	amazing	5	5	the board 's timing was impeccable .	the board 's timing was amazing .
result	come	VB	result	come	2	2	they could result from times when there was more food .	they could come from times when there was more food .
overhaul	law	NN	overhaul	law	8	8	democrats say republicans are obsessed with attacking the overhaul , which is aimed at providing health coverage for millions of uninsured americans .	democrats say republicans are obsessed with attacking the law , which is aimed at providing health coverage for millions of uninsured americans .
languish	wither	VB	languish	wither	12	12	in most amputations , the nerves in the thigh are left to languish or die .	in most amputations , the nerves in the thigh are left to wither or die .
discomfort	pain	NN	discomfort	pain	19	19	the robotic leg programmed to follow vawter 's commands reduced the kinds of errors that cause unnatural movements , discomfort and falls by as much as 44 percent .	the robotic leg programmed to follow vawter 's commands reduced the kinds of errors that cause unnatural movements , pain and falls by as much as 44 percent .
bionic	special	JJ	bionic	special	10	10	he has not fallen once while moving around on his bionic leg .	he has not fallen once while moving around on his special leg .
anew	again	RB	anew	again	15	15	those workers will not be paid until there 's an agreement to fund the government anew .	those workers will not be paid until there 's an agreement to fund the government again .
pall	sadness	NN	pall	sadness	11	11	on the second day of the shutdown , there was a pall over yosemite .	on the second day of the shutdown , there was a sadness over yosemite .
cascade	wave	NN	cascade	wave	20	20	yosemite tourism is responsible for 5,000 jobs , and there were already indications that an extended shutdown could represent a cascade of trouble .	yosemite tourism is responsible for 5,000 jobs , and there were already indications that an extended shutdown could represent a wave of trouble .
curtail	slow	VB	curtail	slow	2	2	determined to curtail development and industry , congress approved a bill in 1864 that protected yosemite .	determined to slow development and industry , congress approved a bill in 1864 that protected yosemite .
swatch	piece	NN	swatch	piece	4	4	it also has a swatch of his jersey attached to it .	it also has a piece of his jersey attached to it .
rambunctious	wild	JJ	rambunctious	wild	11	11	boys , they argue , need more free time to be rambunctious .	boys , they argue , need more free time to be wild .
address	fix	VB	address	fix	8	8	one high school in shanghai is trying to address the problem .	one high school in shanghai is trying to fix the problem .
headmaster	leader	NN	headmaster	leader	4	4	lu qisheng is the headmaster of the school .	lu qisheng is the leader of the school .
budget	accounting	NN	budget	accounting	19	19	from that point on , there were 69 changes to the debt limit through the end of the 2007-2008 budget year .	from that point on , there were 69 changes to the debt limit through the end of the 2007-2008 accounting year .
profligate	big	JJ	profligate	big	18	18	lawmakers had grown tired of passing spending increases and then voting against raising the debt ceiling for their profligate spending .	lawmakers had grown tired of passing spending increases and then voting against raising the debt ceiling for their big spending .
demise	end	NN	demise	end	2	2	since the demise of the gephardt rule , whichever political party controlled the congress has generally used the debt ceiling as a political tool .	since the end of the gephardt rule , whichever political party controlled the congress has generally used the debt ceiling as a political tool .
torso	stomach	NN	torso	stomach	13	13	there was a gash in the neck ; claw marks raked down the torso .	there was a gash in the neck ; claw marks raked down the stomach .
torso	belly	NN	torso	belly	13	13	there was a gash in the neck ; claw marks raked down the torso .	there was a gash in the neck ; claw marks raked down the belly .
announcement	document	NN	announcement	document	8	8	academy member ulf danielsson noted that the prize announcement also honored the work done at cern .	academy member ulf danielsson noted that the prize document also honored the work done at cern .
device	collider	NN	device	collider	1	1	the device produces energies simulating those 1 trillionth to 2 trillionths of a second after the big bang .	the collider produces energies simulating those 1 trillionth to 2 trillionths of a second after the big bang .
complex	involved	JJ	complex	involved	6	6	the report fits into an increasingly complex picture of aging and what it means to the world .	the report fits into an increasingly involved picture of aging and what it means to the world .
former	retired	JJ	former	retired	1	1	the former cook and blacksmith is 75 .	the retired cook and blacksmith is 75 .
retired	former	JJ	retired	former	1	1	the retired cook and blacksmith is 75 .	the former cook and blacksmith is 75 .
conservative	traditional	JJ	conservative	traditional	7	7	munro grew up in wingham , a conservative canadian town west of toronto .	munro grew up in wingham , a traditional canadian town west of toronto .
powerful	important	JJ	powerful	important	8	8	on tuesday , a female member of the powerful shoura council suggested women should be allowed to drive .	on tuesday , a female member of the important shoura council suggested women should be allowed to drive .
pillar	part	NN	pillar	part	5	5	the hajj is a central pillar of islam .	the hajj is a central part of islam .
spiritual	religious	JJ	spiritual	religious	4	4	it is a four-day spiritual cleansing based on centuries of interpretation of the teachings of the prophet muhammad .	it is a four-day religious cleansing based on centuries of interpretation of the teachings of the prophet muhammad .
accommodate	hold	VB	accommodate	hold	12	12	the grand mosque in mecca has also changed dramatically , expanding to accommodate the growing number of pilgrims .	the grand mosque in mecca has also changed dramatically , expanding to hold the growing number of pilgrims .
phase	part	NN	phase	part	2	2	the first phase of the mosque 's new growth project is estimated to hold 450,000 worshipers this hajj .	the first part of the mosque 's new growth project is estimated to hold 450,000 worshipers this hajj .
basic	normal	JJ	basic	normal	0	0	basic methods to control mosquitoes work , he said .	normal methods to control mosquitoes work , he said .
occasionally	occassionally	RB	occasionally	occassionally	16	16	also , government research scientists were sent home and food and drug administration inspectors only worked occasionally .	also , government research scientists were sent home and food and drug administration inspectors only worked occassionally .
confront	ask	VB	confront	ask	7	7	the crackdown has forced the chinese to confront tough questions about how much is too much .	the crackdown has forced the chinese to ask tough questions about how much is too much .
surreptitiously	secretly	RB	surreptitiously	secretly	19	19	google glass -- and some emerging competitors -- have raised concerns of people who do n't want to be surreptitiously videoed or photographed .	google glass -- and some emerging competitors -- have raised concerns of people who do n't want to be secretly videoed or photographed .
piece	article	NN	piece	article	4	4	the language of the piece is harsh , but the thoughts are hardly fresh .	the language of the article is harsh , but the thoughts are hardly fresh .
network	cluster	NN	network	cluster	6	6	the corpus callosum is a dense network of neural fibers .	the corpus callosum is a dense cluster of neural fibers .
basis	source	NN	basis	source	10	10	without a full picture of einstein 's brain , the basis of the theoretical physicist 's genius has eluded scientists .	without a full picture of einstein 's brain , the source of the theoretical physicist 's genius has eluded scientists .
brawn	size	NN	brawn	size	7	7	the researchers were particularly impressed by the brawn of one part of einstein 's corpus callosum : the splenium .	the researchers were particularly impressed by the size of one part of einstein 's corpus callosum : the splenium .
strenuously	heavily	RB	strenuously	heavily	10	10	this might be because einstein continued to exercise his brain strenuously .	this might be because einstein continued to exercise his brain heavily .
important	basic	JJ	important	basic	5	5	pay with cash and discuss important coin combinations , such as how four quarters make a dollar .	pay with cash and discuss basic coin combinations , such as how four quarters make a dollar .
share	have	VBP	share	have	6	6	the toyota tundra and nissan titan share the remaining 10 percent .	the toyota tundra and nissan titan have the remaining 10 percent .
command	charge	VB	command	charge	4	4	cain says gm can command higher prices because it has the newest truck in the market with more features , including increased gas mileage .	cain says gm can charge higher prices because it has the newest truck in the market with more features , including increased gas mileage .
neuroscience	science	NN	neuroscience	science	5	5	the study was run by neuroscience professor joseph schroeder and his students .	the study was run by science professor joseph schroeder and his students .
space	chamber	NN	space	chamber	11	11	in one experiment , rats were given oreo cookies in one space and rice cakes in the other .	in one experiment , rats were given oreo cookies in one chamber and rice cakes in the other .
chamber	space	NN	chamber	space	11	11	in one experiment , rats were given oreo cookies in one chamber and rice cakes in the other .	in one experiment , rats were given oreo cookies in one space and rice cakes in the other .
club	team	NN	club	team	6	6	mccarthy said the aim of the club is to encourage communication between the world 's different religions .	mccarthy said the aim of the team is to encourage communication between the world 's different religions .
immensely	very	RB	immensely	very	2	2	cricket is immensely popular in india , pakistan and bangladesh .	cricket is very popular in india , pakistan and bangladesh .
stand	are	VBP	stand	be	1	1	they stand 2 feet tall and have a 5-foot wingspan .	they are 2 feet tall and have a 5-foot wingspan .
recover	live	VB	recover	live	13	13	local populations of bears , deer and other common animals are expected to recover .	local populations of bears , deer and other common animals are expected to live .
venture	theater	NN	venture	theater	1	1	the venture first opened in 1949 as wyoming 's first drive-in .	the theater first opened in 1949 as wyoming 's first drive-in .
detention	jail	NN	detention	jail	16	16	even if convicted , however , the girls were not expected to spend time in juvenile detention because they did n't have criminal histories .	even if convicted , however , the girls were not expected to spend time in juvenile jail because they did n't have criminal histories .
instrument	bugle	NN	instrument	bugle	4	4	the bugler lifts the instrument to his mouth and waits .	the bugler lifts the bugle to his mouth and waits .
brusquely	firmly	RB	brusquely	firmly	3	3	diab ordered , brusquely , as the students hit the deck .	diab ordered , firmly , as the students hit the deck .
carcass	body	NN	carcass	body	13	13	staff members at the catalina island marine institute considered burying their 18-foot oarfish carcass , which was too large to refrigerate .	staff members at the catalina island marine institute considered burying their 18-foot oarfish body , which was too large to refrigerate .
fine	delicate	JJ	fine	delicate	12	12	but experts at the natural history museum said the bones are too fine .	but experts at the natural history museum said the bones are too delicate .
environment	area	NN	environment	area	12	12	but there are fears that the oil sands production is polluting the environment .	but there are fears that the oil sands production is polluting the area .
development	mining	NN	development	mining	11	11	and some native groups have made their peace with oil sands development .	and some native groups have made their peace with oil sands mining .
amphitheater	theater	NN	amphitheater	theater	18	18	but the village has reaped millions of dollars and is building a new youth center , church and amphitheater .	but the village has reaped millions of dollars and is building a new youth center , church and theater .
subsidy	discount	NN	subsidy	discount	16	16	the top questions are about premiums and how to estimate 2014 income to calculate what federal subsidy they might be eligible for .	the top questions are about premiums and how to estimate 2014 income to calculate what federal discount they might be eligible for .
debit	bank	NN	debit	bank	14	14	he was arrested and detained , though he showed police the receipt , the debit card he used and identification , the lawsuit said .	he was arrested and detained , though he showed police the receipt , the bank card he used and identification , the lawsuit said .
lone	only	JJ	lone	only	10	10	her girls were n't allowed to watch the family 's lone tv until a few years ago .	her girls were n't allowed to watch the family 's only tv until a few years ago .
phenomenon	experience	NN	phenomenon	experience	7	7	the halloween corn maze is an all-american phenomenon .	the halloween corn maze is an all-american experience .
contractor	business	NN	contractor	business	15	15	it first surfaced in the early 1990s , according to corn mazes america , a contractor that specializes in helping farms make mazes .	it first surfaced in the early 1990s , according to corn mazes america , a business that specializes in helping farms make mazes .
estimate	say	VBP	estimate	say	2	2	maize experts estimate farms can make $ 5,000 to $ 50,000 from an average maze , depending on location .	maize experts say farms can make $ 5,000 to $ 50,000 from an average maze , depending on location .
ride	time	NN	ride	time	9	9	coleo in the united states has had a rough ride .	coleo in the united states has had a rough time .
impressive	excellent	JJ	impressive	excellent	6	6	but he says team usa has impressive skills .	but he says team usa has excellent skills .
council	group	NN	council	group	7	7	romani rose is head of a roma council in germany .	romani rose is head of a roma group in germany .
unscrupulous	crooked	JJ	unscrupulous	crooked	13	13	he said poor villagers come to berlin and find only overcrowded apartments where unscrupulous landlords overcharge them for a mattress on the floor .	he said poor villagers come to berlin and find only overcrowded apartments where crooked landlords overcharge them for a mattress on the floor .
approximately	about	RB	approximately	about	5	5	the oneida indian nation has approximately 1,000 enrolled members .	the oneida indian nation has about 1,000 enrolled members .
physicist	scientist	NN	physicist	scientist	14	14	researchers '' are really searching in the dark in a way , '' said physicist avi loeb .	researchers '' are really searching in the dark in a way , '' said scientist avi loeb .
preservation	support	NN	preservation	support	2	2	some animal preservation groups are bashing the idea .	some animal support groups are bashing the idea .
oppose	stop	VB	oppose	stop	8	8	pacelle said the humane society would work to oppose the permit .	pacelle said the humane society would work to stop the permit .
voice	say	NN	voice	say	17	17	de blasio is the city 's public advocate , an elected official who helps people have a voice in the city 's government .	de blasio is the city 's public advocate , an elected official who helps people have a say in the city 's government .
high	common	JJ	high	common	17	17	he said that a de blasio victory would return the city to its past when crime was high .	he said that a de blasio victory would return the city to its past when crime was common .
swivel	turn	VB	swivel	turn	12	12	to see the future of the nba , they only have to swivel their heads .	to see the future of the nba , they only have to turn their heads .
rebound	ball	NN	rebound	ball	10	10	the darkest squares show the most likely spots where a rebound would fall depending on the shot taken .	the darkest squares show the most likely spots where a ball would fall depending on the shot taken .
stats	numbers	NNS	stats	number	10	10	lakers center chris kaman said he was often overloaded with stats last season when he played for dallas .	lakers center chris kaman said he was often overloaded with numbers last season when he played for dallas .
sporadic	infrequent	JJ	sporadic	infrequent	5	5	now , she only makes sporadic mistakes .	now , she only makes infrequent mistakes .
plethora	bunch	NN	plethora	bunch	1	1	a plethora of smartphone apps allow parents to locate their teenagers via their phones , like iphone 's find my friends .	a bunch of smartphone apps allow parents to locate their teenagers via their phones , like iphone 's find my friends .
newsmagazine	magazine	NN	newsmagazine	magazine	9	9	the stunning find was reported sunday by the german newsmagazine focus .	the stunning find was reported sunday by the german magazine focus .
acknowledge	say	VBP	acknowledge	say	16	16	how much of this is hollywood and how much is truly possible is uncertain , designers acknowledge .	how much of this is hollywood and how much is truly possible is uncertain , designers say .
juice	power	NN	juice	power	8	8	too small and it could run out of juice in the middle of a mission .	too small and it could run out of power in the middle of a mission .
list	menu	NN	list	menu	4	4	but soon , the list will change .	but soon , the menu will change .
cuisine	food	NN	cuisine	food	6	6	customers are turning away from cut-rate cuisine in part because it is n't as cheap as it used to be , analysts said .	customers are turning away from cut-rate food in part because it is n't as cheap as it used to be , analysts said .
label	box	NN	label	box	2	2	but the label also says that adding margarine and 2 percent reduced fat milk adds trans fat .	but the box also says that adding margarine and 2 percent reduced fat milk adds trans fat .
evolve	grow	VB	evolve	grow	19	19	williston mayor ward koeser says '' it 's critical to have families here '' if williston is going to evolve with its oil industry .	williston mayor ward koeser says '' it 's critical to have families here '' if williston is going to grow with its oil industry .
honor	remember	VB	honor	remember	5	5	veterans day was designed to honor all those who served in the military .	veterans day was designed to remember all those who served in the military .
array	display	NN	array	display	4	4	it is a kaleidoscopic array of neon , tie-dye , glitter and glow-in-the-dark rings .	it is a kaleidoscopic display of neon , tie-dye , glitter and glow-in-the-dark rings .
communication	understanding	NN	communication	understanding	9	9	when a person misses a bit of information , communication can break down .	when a person misses a bit of information , understanding can break down .
function	purpose	NN	function	purpose	15	15	they also wanted to see whether other languages had a similar word with a similar function .	they also wanted to see whether other languages had a similar word with a similar purpose .
casual	everyday	JJ	casual	everyday	4	4	then they could record casual conversations .	then they could record everyday conversations .
skirmish	fight	NN	skirmish	fight	8	8	the ship sank 34 years later during a skirmish with the french fleet .	the ship sank 34 years later during a fight with the french fleet .
prime	big	JJ	prime	big	14	14	the mary rose was raised from the water in 1982 and is now a prime tourist attraction .	the mary rose was raised from the water in 1982 and is now a big tourist attraction .
largess	generosity	NN	largess	generosity	5	5	and it is galvanizing the largess of the foreign populations they serve .	and it is galvanizing the generosity of the foreign populations they serve .
crisis	disaster	NN	crisis	disaster	9	9	familiarity with the islands ' people has made the crisis more real , filipino expats say .	familiarity with the islands ' people has made the disaster more real , filipino expats say .
innovation	change	NN	innovation	change	4	4	it 's the latest innovation in french public education : their child must now attend school on wednesdays .	it 's the latest change in french public education : their child must now attend school on wednesdays .
oasis	break	NN	oasis	break	4	4	it was a traditional oasis in the middle of the week for elementary school students .	it was a traditional break in the middle of the week for elementary school students .
comparable	equal	JJ	comparable	equal	38	38	because french students had wednesdays off , as well as a relatively short school year , educators were forced to pack more hours into each remaining school day in order to achieve an annual amount of instruction time comparable to other developed nations .	because french students had wednesdays off , as well as a relatively short school year , educators were forced to pack more hours into each remaining school day in order to achieve an annual amount of instruction time equal to other developed nations .
criticism	attack	NN	criticism	attack	9	9	but that personal calm has been challenged by public criticism .	but that personal calm has been challenged by public attack .
recalibrate	rework	VB	recalibrate	rework	10	10	the team used the new fossils and other specimens to recalibrate the evolutionary tree and match it up with a dna-based timeline .	the team used the new fossils and other specimens to rework the evolutionary tree and match it up with a dna-based timeline .
mock	fake	JJ	mock	fake	3	3	to him , mock meat is not only much healthier than the real thing .	to him , fake meat is not only much healthier than the real thing .
extruder	machine	NN	extruder	machine	7	7	pressed through a large , stainless steel extruder , the manipulated proteins ooze out like pale play-doh .	pressed through a large , stainless steel machine , the manipulated proteins ooze out like pale play-doh .
ersatz	fake	JJ	ersatz	fake	8	8	the company also is exploring chicken nuggets and ersatz drumsticks .	the company also is exploring chicken nuggets and fake drumsticks .
accommodate	survive	VB	accommodate	survive	5	5	which plants and animals can accommodate these harsher seas -- and for how long -- will depend on many factors .	which plants and animals can survive these harsher seas -- and for how long -- will depend on many factors .
substance	meaning	NN	substance	meaning	9	9	she was referring both to the penmanship and the substance of the speech .	she was referring both to the penmanship and the meaning of the speech .
uncannily	frighteningly	RB	uncannily	frighteningly	1	1	their uncannily accurate predictions were combined with television and radio warnings , text-message alerts and storm sirens .	their frighteningly accurate predictions were combined with television and radio warnings , text-message alerts and storm sirens .
salvation	help	NN	salvation	help	10	10	school officials are now looking to a faraway place for salvation .	school officials are now looking to a faraway place for help .
toll	damage	NN	toll	damage	2	2	the full toll is not yet known .	the full damage is not yet known .
series	bunch	NN	series	bunch	7	7	lew 's signature looked more like a series of loops than a name .	lew 's signature looked more like a bunch of loops than a name .
speculation	curiosity	NN	speculation	curiosity	12	12	the clintons ' presence at kennedy 's gravesite was sure to spark speculation .	the clintons ' presence at kennedy 's gravesite was sure to spark curiosity .
law	police	NN	law	police	18	18	kids who are bored are more likely to drop out of school and get into trouble with the law .	kids who are bored are more likely to drop out of school and get into trouble with the police .
predict	think	VBP	predict	think	1	1	analysts predict both devices will be hot sellers this holiday shopping season .	analysts think both devices will be hot sellers this holiday shopping season .
console	system	NN	console	system	16	16	the playstation 3 cost $ 599 which was $ 200 more than the top xbox 360 console .	the playstation 3 cost $ 599 which was $ 200 more than the top xbox 360 system .
mournfully	sadly	RB	mournfully	sadly	8	8	on tuesday , government scholar zhang yansheng spoke mournfully about his daughter 's loneliness as a young girl .	on tuesday , government scholar zhang yansheng spoke sadly about his daughter 's loneliness as a young girl .
reluctant	slow	JJ	reluctant	slow	8	8	but gaballah , like other christians , is reluctant to criticize .	but gaballah , like other christians , is slow to criticize .
cacophonous	complete	JJ	cacophonous	complete	18	18	but now , for both christians and muslim egyptians alike , that anger has been replaced by a cacophonous silence , even though attacks continue .	but now , for both christians and muslim egyptians alike , that anger has been replaced by a complete silence , even though attacks continue .
stealthy	quiet	JJ	stealthy	quiet	3	3	it 's not stealthy .	it 's not quiet .
keep	get	VB	keep	get	7	7	irving was hired over the summer to keep spurgeon under control .	irving was hired over the summer to get spurgeon under control .
feel	be	VB	feel	be	3	3	no one will feel threatened by students , irving told them .	no one will be threatened by students , irving told them .
nimblest	best	JJS	nimblest	best	7	7	she became one of bletchley park 's nimblest decoders .	she became one of bletchley park 's best decoders .
ceramic	new	JJ	ceramic	new	1	1	the ceramic panels would be less expensive , too , the researchers said .	the new panels would be less expensive , too , the researchers said .
benign	friendly	JJ	benign	friendly	19	19	the new material contains potassium , niobium , barium , and nickel , which are relatively abundant and environmentally benign .	the new material contains potassium , niobium , barium , and nickel , which are relatively abundant and environmentally friendly .
immensely	truly	RB	immensely	truly	4	4	if there is something immensely american about eagles at florida landfills , it 's the appeal of fast food in abundance .	if there is something truly american about eagles at florida landfills , it 's the appeal of fast food in abundance .
specialist	lover	NN	specialist	lover	12	12	as numbers rose , their behavior shifted from rodent hunter to garbage specialist .	as numbers rose , their behavior shifted from rodent hunter to garbage lover .
icon	button	NN	icon	button	15	15	with 3-d printing , designers can tweak details on a computer and click the print icon .	with 3-d printing , designers can tweak details on a computer and click the print button .
tweak	change	VB	tweak	change	6	6	with 3-d printing , designers can tweak details on a computer and click the print button .	with 3-d printing , designers can change details on a computer and click the print button .
perplexing	strange	JJ	perplexing	strange	6	6	the lack of buzz is especially perplexing because lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the united states .	the lack of buzz is especially strange because lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the united states .
buzz	attention	NN	buzz	attention	3	3	the lack of buzz is especially strange because lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the united states .	the lack of attention is especially strange because lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the united states .
virtuous	good	JJ	virtuous	good	9	9	even so , o ' brien immediately recited her virtuous health habits : physical education teacher .	even so , o ' brien immediately recited her good health habits : physical education teacher .
enthusiastic	regular	JJ	enthusiastic	regular	0	0	enthusiastic tennis player .	regular tennis player .
diagnosis	disease	NN	diagnosis	disease	6	6	not that anyone deserves the deadly diagnosis .	not that anyone deserves the deadly disease .
probe	spacecraft	NN	probe	spacecraft	21	21	it would be the first soft landing on the moon since 1976 , when the soviet union landed the luna 24 probe .	it would be the first soft landing on the moon since 1976 , when the soviet union landed the luna 24 spacecraft .
burst	lot	NN	burst	lot	3	3	there was a burst of moon exploration in the 1960s and 1970s .	there was a lot of moon exploration in the 1960s and 1970s .
moratorium	ban	NN	moratorium	ban	8	8	in response , mcdonnell added exemptions to the moratorium for researchers and companies to test drones .	in response , mcdonnell added exemptions to the ban for researchers and companies to test drones .
tradition	belief	NN	tradition	belief	6	6	coningham said that because of this tradition , it was not surprising that a tree would feature prominently in the shrine .	coningham said that because of this belief , it was not surprising that a tree would feature prominently in the shrine .
distinct	real	JJ	distinct	real	3	3	those shifts hold distinct consequences for kansas and other great plains states , including oklahoma , nebraska and south dakota .	those shifts hold real consequences for kansas and other great plains states , including oklahoma , nebraska and south dakota .
establish	declare	VB	establish	declare	15	15	rather , the vice president hoped to persuade china not to enforce the zone or establish similar zones over other disputed territories .	rather , the vice president hoped to persuade china not to enforce the zone or declare similar zones over other disputed territories .
past	other	JJ	past	other	5	5	the speech drew attention to past laws he has tried to get passed .	the speech drew attention to other laws he has tried to get passed .
justify	offset	VB	justify	offset	22	22	if congress forced fast-food restaurants to pay $ 15 an hour , they would have to get a lot more productive to justify those higher costs .	if congress forced fast-food restaurants to pay $ 15 an hour , they would have to get a lot more productive to offset those higher costs .
recognize	understand	VBP	recognize	understand	4	4	most lawmakers and leaders recognize this .	most lawmakers and leaders understand this .
lackluster	poor	JJ	lackluster	poor	19	19	at denny international and aki kurose in seattle , both of which have long struggled with student discipline and lackluster scores , it is making a dramatic difference .	at denny international and aki kurose in seattle , both of which have long struggled with student discipline and poor scores , it is making a dramatic difference .
candidate	person	NN	candidate	person	5	5	he is also the first candidate to run and win as a whig in that city in 157 years .	he is also the first person to run and win as a whig in that city in 157 years .
renaissance	comeback	NN	renaissance	comeback	21	21	in maryland , where the whigs held four of their national conventions in the mid-19th century , the hub of the renaissance is in cecil county .	in maryland , where the whigs held four of their national conventions in the mid-19th century , the hub of the comeback is in cecil county .
implosion	breakup	NN	implosion	breakup	25	25	as a moderate party that tried to appeal to as many people as possible , its lack of concrete ideology seemed to contribute to its implosion .	as a moderate party that tried to appeal to as many people as possible , its lack of concrete ideology seemed to contribute to its breakup .
adequately	fairly	RB	adequately	fairly	11	11	only 26 percent of those asked believed the two main parties adequately represent americans .	only 26 percent of those asked believed the two main parties fairly represent americans .
uptick	increase	NN	uptick	increase	4	4	the party saw an uptick of new members during the recent government shutdown .	the party saw an increase of new members during the recent government shutdown .
cut	lost	VBD	cut	lose	9	9	only in the past 135 have most of us cut our connection with what shines above .	only in the past 135 have most of us lost our connection with what shines above .
turmoil	controversy	NN	turmoil	controversy	8	8	obama in recent weeks has been battered by turmoil over his health care program .	obama in recent weeks has been battered by controversy over his health care program .
rebound	comeback	NN	rebound	comeback	5	5	though indicators suggest a healthy rebound , people are n't feeling it .	though indicators suggest a healthy comeback , people are n't feeling it .
bone	leg	NN	bone	leg	2	2	alongside the bone were the remains of 28 other individuals .	alongside the leg were the remains of 28 other individuals .
fossil	bone	NN	fossil	bone	0	0	fossil remains of european neanderthals have allowed scientists to describe their appearance in detail .	bone remains of european neanderthals have allowed scientists to describe their appearance in detail .
people	students	NNS	people	student	21	21	the results come on the heels of another penn study , released last month , that showed a vast majority of people enrolled in moocs already hold college degrees .	the results come on the heels of another penn study , released last month , that showed a vast majority of students enrolled in moocs already hold college degrees .
humanitarian	charitable	JJ	humanitarian	charitable	21	21	aid arrives irregularly , and in haphazard fashion , refugees say , despite the work of united nations relief teams and humanitarian agencies .	aid arrives irregularly , and in haphazard fashion , refugees say , despite the work of united nations relief teams and charitable agencies .
insulation	protection	NN	insulation	protection	4	4	the plastic provides some insulation from the rain and snow .	the plastic provides some protection from the rain and snow .
predicament	situation	NN	predicament	situation	1	1	their predicament is difficult , they say , but not life-threatening .	their situation is difficult , they say , but not life-threatening .
slow	weak	JJ	slow	weak	19	19	one reason the plane made the arctic trip was because the hurricane season in the atlantic had been unusually slow .	one reason the plane made the arctic trip was because the hurricane season in the atlantic had been unusually weak .
weak	slow	JJ	weak	slow	19	19	one reason the plane made the arctic trip was because the hurricane season in the atlantic had been unusually weak .	one reason the plane made the arctic trip was because the hurricane season in the atlantic had been unusually slow .
advocacy	caring	NN	advocacy	caring	2	2	parents need advocacy and support , said witherspoon .	parents need caring and support , said witherspoon .
hypothesis	theory	NN	hypothesis	theory	1	1	the hypothesis makes sense , but proving it has been difficult -- and the aloof nature of cats has n't helped .	the theory makes sense , but proving it has been difficult -- and the aloof nature of cats has n't helped .
experience	practice	NN	experience	practice	8	8	they will allow medical students to get hands-on experience .	they will allow medical students to get hands-on practice .
tactile	physical	JJ	tactile	physical	1	1	the tactile feedback is very good , so tumors feel different from brain tissue , he said .	the physical feedback is very good , so tumors feel different from brain tissue , he said .
monitor	look	VB	monitor	look	12	12	university of oregon researchers flew drones this summer over potato fields to monitor for disease .	university of oregon researchers flew drones this summer over potato fields to look for disease .
carefree	safe	JJ	carefree	safe	16	16	but after a bear charged bateman twice while walking her dogs , she is feeling less carefree .	but after a bear charged bateman twice while walking her dogs , she is feeling less safe .
recreational	adult	JJ	recreational	adult	8	8	a year has passed since washington state legalized recreational marijuana use .	a year has passed since washington state legalized adult marijuana use .
center	office	NN	center	office	1	1	the center is one of the first of its kind along the border , said member leesa jacobson .	the office is one of the first of its kind along the border , said member leesa jacobson .
regime	government	NN	regime	government	8	8	although that has generated speculation abroad about the regime 's unity , north korean officials say the execution settled the issue and there is no instability .	although that has generated speculation abroad about the government 's unity , north korean officials say the execution settled the issue and there is no instability .
juvenile	small	JJ	juvenile	small	9	9	concerned that the barrier was too weak to repel juvenile fish , in 2011 the army corps increased its voltage .	concerned that the barrier was too weak to repel small fish , in 2011 the army corps increased its voltage .
have	give	VB	have	give	5	5	the study is expected to have a range of options .	the study is expected to give a range of options .
tension	conflict	NN	tension	conflict	9	9	even in lovelock , the new rules have caused tension among parents , teachers and the school board .	even in lovelock , the new rules have caused conflict among parents , teachers and the school board .
amplify	enlarge	VB	amplify	enlarge	12	12	it takes about three minutes to run the 30 cycles needed to amplify the dna to a size where it can be identified .	it takes about three minutes to run the 30 cycles needed to enlarge the dna to a size where it can be identified .
concede	say	VBP	concede	say	1	1	some concede that students ' ability to pay tuition without substantial financial aid also can sway their choices .	some say that students ' ability to pay tuition without substantial financial aid also can sway their choices .
vulnerable	open	JJ	vulnerable	open	8	8	-- charges can take hours and leave one vulnerable to the increasingly unreliable power grid .	-- charges can take hours and leave one open to the increasingly unreliable power grid .
announcement	decision	NN	announcement	decision	1	1	the announcement also could send a signal to china .	the decision also could send a signal to china .
supply	have	VB	supply	have	9	9	the district provides computers for students who do n't supply their own .	the district provides computers for students who do n't have their own .
powerful	special	JJ	powerful	special	7	7	chang ' e 3 also carries a powerful camera .	chang ' e 3 also carries a special camera .
monitor	study	VB	monitor	study	6	6	this is to be used to monitor the earth 's atmosphere .	this is to be used to study the earth 's atmosphere .
only	few	JJ	only	few	19	19	the newspaper -- motto : '' the pulse of san quentin '' -- is one of the country 's only inmate-produced publications .	the newspaper -- motto : '' the pulse of san quentin '' -- is one of the country 's few inmate-produced publications .
issue	newspaper	NN	issue	newspaper	20	20	when he appeared in a front-page photo of a basketball game , thomas mailed his mother a copy of the issue .	when he appeared in a front-page photo of a basketball game , thomas mailed his mother a copy of the newspaper .
publication	newspaper	NN	publication	newspaper	16	16	the editors have larger plans and are working with graduate students at berkeley to expand the publication .	the editors have larger plans and are working with graduate students at berkeley to expand the newspaper .
switch	turn	VB	switch	turn	15	15	some walk in with new e-readers , still in the box , unsure how to switch them on .	some walk in with new e-readers , still in the box , unsure how to turn them on .
interaction	contact	NN	interaction	contact	9	9	in some cases , technological advances mean less face-to-face interaction at the library .	in some cases , technological advances mean less face-to-face contact at the library .
branch	library	NN	branch	library	11	11	people can download e-books without ever setting foot in their local branch .	people can download e-books without ever setting foot in their local library .
recover	remove	VB	recover	remove	11	11	those substances are released when the waste is melted down to recover gold , silver and copper .	those substances are released when the waste is melted down to remove gold , silver and copper .
hardly	not	RB	hardly	not	2	2	they 're hardly famous .	they 're not famous .
impromptu	unplanned	JJ	impromptu	unplanned	13	13	the americans watched for half an hour , and the kids staged an impromptu concert .	the americans watched for half an hour , and the kids staged an unplanned concert .
death	man	NN	death	man	5	5	the cause of the third death was unknown .	the cause of the third man was unknown .
quintessential	typical	JJ	quintessential	typical	7	7	the pacific sardine is the ocean 's quintessential boom-bust fish .	the pacific sardine is the ocean 's typical boom-bust fish .
technical	complicated	JJ	technical	complicated	5	5	the report is crammed with technical details about greenhouse gases , rising sea levels and our atmosphere .	the report is crammed with complicated details about greenhouse gases , rising sea levels and our atmosphere .
format	medium	NN	format	medium	13	13	haiku , with its familiar 5-7-5 cadence , might seem like an odd format for a scientist to embrace -- but johnson was already well acquainted with it .	haiku , with its familiar 5-7-5 cadence , might seem like an odd medium for a scientist to embrace -- but johnson was already well acquainted with it .
spare	simple	JJ	spare	simple	8	8	in combination with johnson 's paintings , the spare verses are also evocative in a way that scientific reports are not , fahey added .	in combination with johnson 's paintings , the simple verses are also evocative in a way that scientific reports are not , fahey added .
faction	industry	NN	faction	industry	5	5	but there 's one local faction that could be a problem .	but there 's one local industry that could be a problem .
sweeping	big	JJ	sweeping	big	2	2	passing a sweeping national climate change law would be a good start .	passing a big national climate change law would be a good start .
schoolchildren	kids	NNS	schoolchildren	kid	3	3	today , even schoolchildren carry iphones .	today , even kids carry iphones .
crisis	problem	NN	crisis	problem	6	6	horticulturists in both countries say the crisis has been building for years .	horticulturists in both countries say the problem has been building for years .
replica	copy	NN	replica	copy	4	4	the show has a replica of his screen test set where visitors can sit in front of a camera .	the show has a copy of his screen test set where visitors can sit in front of a camera .
database	list	NN	database	list	5	5	the researchers used a national database of americans ' health and eating behaviors .	the researchers used a national list of americans ' health and eating behaviors .
grow	raise	VB	grow	raise	10	10	it 's the only way to farm where you can grow both fish and vegetables , morris says .	it 's the only way to farm where you can raise both fish and vegetables , morris says .
service	business	NN	service	business	10	10	commercially cultivated bees pollinate about 90 crops worldwide , a service valued at $ 14 billion annually .	commercially cultivated bees pollinate about 90 crops worldwide , a business valued at $ 14 billion annually .
cause	make	VBP	cause	make	2	2	ocean waves cause seismic waves .	ocean waves make seismic waves .
research	work	NN	research	work	5	5	she is now continuing her research at the university of california .	she is now continuing her work at the university of california .
extract	gather	VB	extract	gather	14	14	the times and propublica said a 2012 british intelligence report laid out how to extract '' angry birds '' users ' information from phones .	the times and propublica said a 2012 british intelligence report laid out how to gather '' angry birds '' users ' information from phones .
extract	discover	VB	extract	discover	7	7	computer experts said they were able to extract the name of the employee .	computer experts said they were able to discover the name of the employee .
error	accident	NN	error	accident	10	10	a times spokeswoman said the information had been posted by error .	a times spokeswoman said the information had been posted by accident .
eclectic	interesting	JJ	eclectic	interesting	6	6	the president 's speech drew an eclectic mix of visitors to the house chamber .	the president 's speech drew an interesting mix of visitors to the house chamber .
farmstead	farming	NN	farmstead	farming	8	8	in particular , shooting focused on the norwegian farmstead area , the catholic church and the town hall .	in particular , shooting focused on the norwegian farming area , the catholic church and the town hall .
uptick	rise	NN	uptick	rise	10	10	in a state where tourism drives the economy , the uptick in shark encounters has alarmed visitors and business owners alike .	in a state where tourism drives the economy , the rise in shark encounters has alarmed visitors and business owners alike .
dip	decrease	VB	dip	decrease	7	7	graduation rates in indiana also did n't dip with increased standards , she said .	graduation rates in indiana also did n't decrease with increased standards , she said .
basic	cheap	JJ	basic	cheap	17	17	like many in china , they 'd stand the whole way , having saved money by getting basic tickets instead of reserving seats .	like many in china , they 'd stand the whole way , having saved money by getting cheap tickets instead of reserving seats .
contingent	dependent	JJ	contingent	dependent	16	16	it 's a nice sentiment , but for millions of workers here , returning home is contingent on getting paid .	it 's a nice sentiment , but for millions of workers here , returning home is dependent on getting paid .
virtuoso	talented	JJ	virtuoso	talented	7	7	the violin 's early owners included the virtuoso giuseppe tartini -lrb- 1692-1770 -rrb- .	the violin 's early owners included the talented giuseppe tartini -lrb- 1692-1770 -rrb- .
muscular	strong	JJ	muscular	strong	0	0	muscular and gnarled from years of working with fiberglass and steel , march 's hands are like those of a carpenter .	strong and gnarled from years of working with fiberglass and steel , march 's hands are like those of a carpenter .
unruly	messy	JJ	unruly	messy	1	1	his unruly blond hair falls on either side of his gray-blue eyes .	his messy blond hair falls on either side of his gray-blue eyes .
barrage	blast	NN	barrage	blast	3	3	it sent a barrage of small rocks up into the car 's underbelly , damaging a wheel fastener .	it sent a blast of small rocks up into the car 's underbelly , damaging a wheel fastener .
iconic	famous	JJ	iconic	famous	12	12	so it does n't make any sense to keep topping off the iconic , but leaky , outdoor neptune pool .	so it does n't make any sense to keep topping off the famous , but leaky , outdoor neptune pool .
surveillance	spy	NN	surveillance	spy	13	13	this tells you a lot about the priorities of our morally corrupt national surveillance state .	this tells you a lot about the priorities of our morally corrupt national spy state .
practice	fact	NN	practice	fact	2	2	but in practice , they have told us almost nothing about countries like north korea , iran , china , cuba and venezuela .	but in fact , they have told us almost nothing about countries like north korea , iran , china , cuba and venezuela .
role	job	NN	role	job	10	10	free societies recognize that keeping some secrets is a necessary role of government .	free societies recognize that keeping some secrets is a necessary job of government .
strategy	plan	NN	strategy	plan	8	8	the challenge showed obama using his new second-term strategy .	the challenge showed obama using his new second-term plan .
diagnose	find	VB	diagnose	find	10	10	critics say these tests are limited in their ability to diagnose health risks accurately .	critics say these tests are limited in their ability to find health risks accurately .
tumor	disease	NN	tumor	disease	1	1	her tumor was not responding to the standard medicine used to treat the cancer .	her disease was not responding to the standard medicine used to treat the cancer .
definite	certain	JJ	definite	certain	5	5	but nothing so far is definite , fougeres said .	but nothing so far is certain , fougeres said .
pigmy	pygmy	JJ	pigmy	pygmy	11	11	other kinds of whales that can be found near florida include pigmy sperm whales , humpback whales , north atlantic right whales , bryde 's whales and gervais beaked whales .	other kinds of whales that can be found near florida include pygmy sperm whales , humpback whales , north atlantic right whales , bryde 's whales and gervais beaked whales .
commercial	private	JJ	commercial	private	2	2	but the commercial space industry has grown rapidly in recent years .	but the private space industry has grown rapidly in recent years .
tragedy	sadness	NN	tragedy	sadness	6	6	the sport has been shadowed by tragedy .	the sport has been shadowed by sadness .
roster	team	NN	roster	team	8	8	this time , it looks like the russian roster is loaded in all disciplines .	this time , it looks like the russian team is loaded in all disciplines .
debate	issue	NN	debate	issue	4	4	for others , the debate is more practical .	for others , the issue is more practical .
federal	national	JJ	federal	national	4	4	it is not enforcing federal limits on driving hours for salt truck drivers .	it is not enforcing national limits on driving hours for salt truck drivers .
predator	enemy	NN	predator	enemy	4	4	introducing a stink bug predator could take three to five years .	introducing a stink bug enemy could take three to five years .
proposal	plan	NN	proposal	plan	5	5	there will likely be a proposal to introduce tiny wasps as predators of stink bugs within a year , weber said .	there will likely be a plan to introduce tiny wasps as predators of stink bugs within a year , weber said .
shawl	veil	NN	shawl	veil	6	6	her face is hidden behind a shawl .	her face is hidden behind a veil .
ministry	job	NN	ministry	job	11	11	she leaves home unescorted every day , working at a government ministry and attending university classes at night .	she leaves home unescorted every day , working at a government job and attending university classes at night .
department	job	NN	department	job	11	11	she leaves home unescorted every day , working at a government department and attending university classes at night .	she leaves home unescorted every day , working at a government job and attending university classes at night .
research	science	NN	research	science	5	5	he said there is clear research showing the link between sugary drinks and these diseases .	he said there is clear science showing the link between sugary drinks and these diseases .
vitality	energy	NN	vitality	energy	19	19	while the olympics provide snowboarders and freestyle skiers with an international showcase , the new sports have added youthful vitality and millions of new tv viewers to games that were growing stale .	while the olympics provide snowboarders and freestyle skiers with an international showcase , the new sports have added youthful energy and millions of new tv viewers to games that were growing stale .
fervor	fit	NN	fervor	fit	15	15	two russian couples had gone immediately before them , sending the crowd into its usual fervor of nationalistic pride .	two russian couples had gone immediately before them , sending the crowd into its usual fit of nationalistic pride .
foundation	group	NN	foundation	group	12	12	siding with the mother were a student organization and a national legal foundation that advocates for religious liberty .	siding with the mother were a student organization and a national legal group that advocates for religious liberty .
exterminate	kill	VB	exterminate	kill	23	23	while free-roaming dogs are a global issue , it has been spotlighted in sochi because of reports that olympic organizers hired contractors to exterminate at least 2,000 animals .	while free-roaming dogs are a global issue , it has been spotlighted in sochi because of reports that olympic organizers hired contractors to kill at least 2,000 animals .
proff	proof	NN	proff	proof	21	21	those bringing back dogs are required to get two pieces of paper to do so : an international health certificate and proff of rabies vaccination .	those bringing back dogs are required to get two pieces of paper to do so : an international health certificate and proof of rabies vaccination .
girl	dog	NN	girl	dog	2	2	the short-haired girl with sorrowful eyes approached shyly in hopes of scoring a morsel .	the short-haired dog with sorrowful eyes approached shyly in hopes of scoring a morsel .
matter	source	NN	matter	source	5	5	the relay races are a matter of deep national pride .	the relay races are a source of deep national pride .
crescendo	level	NN	crescendo	level	16	16	kiev , ukraine -- the 3-month-old uprising against ukrainian president viktor yanukovich flared to a deadly crescendo tuesday .	kiev , ukraine -- the 3-month-old uprising against ukrainian president viktor yanukovich flared to a deadly level tuesday .
republic	country	NN	republic	country	18	18	even the lower death toll would represent the worst one-day loss of life in the battle over the republic 's future .	even the lower death toll would represent the worst one-day loss of life in the battle over the country 's future .
work	dig	VB	work	dig	3	3	he planned to work through the night , if necessary .	he planned to dig through the night , if necessary .
estimate	show	VBP	estimate	show	1	1	studies estimate that a problem gambler will affect an average of five to 10 other people .	studies show that a problem gambler will affect an average of five to 10 other people .
untold	immense	JJ	untold	immense	6	6	the total costs to society are untold .	the total costs to society are immense .
fundamentally	clearly	RB	fundamentally	clearly	3	3	online gambling is fundamentally more dangerous than other forms of gambling .	online gambling is clearly more dangerous than other forms of gambling .
prohibit	block	VB	prohibit	block	7	7	it should update the wire act to prohibit internet gambling .	it should update the wire act to block internet gambling .
trophy	animal	NN	trophy	animal	6	6	the safari club international foundation represents trophy hunters .	the safari club international foundation represents animal hunters .
undermine	spoil	VB	undermine	spoil	12	12	joe hosmer , the group 's president , said government actions can undermine on-the-ground conservation projects , which he argued are already working well .	joe hosmer , the group 's president , said government actions can spoil on-the-ground conservation projects , which he argued are already working well .
crunch	problem	NN	crunch	problem	2	2	the money crunch has gotten so bad that the nuns say they will have to stop letting students live at the school later this year .	the money problem has gotten so bad that the nuns say they will have to stop letting students live at the school later this year .
formidable	strong	JJ	formidable	strong	6	6	many others have found work as formidable backup players and session musicians , in jamaica and other countries worldwide .	many others have found work as strong backup players and session musicians , in jamaica and other countries worldwide .
group	corps	NN	group	corps	1	1	the group evolved into a famed brass band under the school 's longtime leader , sister mary ignatius davies .	the corps evolved into a famed brass band under the school 's longtime leader , sister mary ignatius davies .
possibility	idea	NN	possibility	idea	7	7	the new research argued strongly against that possibility , scientists said .	the new research argued strongly against that idea , scientists said .
referendum	vote	NN	referendum	vote	4	4	he said a planned referendum on march 30 would ask voters about the region 's future status .	he said a planned vote on march 30 would ask voters about the region 's future status .
craziest	riskiest	JJS	craziest	riskiest	5	5	some of the sport 's craziest moves have become famous .	some of the sport 's riskiest moves have become famous .
functional	useful	JJ	functional	useful	13	13	he says many of the new students he sees view parkour as a functional way to get fit .	he says many of the new students he sees view parkour as a useful way to get fit .
invasion	attack	NN	invasion	attack	14	14	jorge ribadeneira was 19 when radio quito staged its own version of the alien invasion .	jorge ribadeneira was 19 when radio quito staged its own version of the alien attack .
emblematic	famous	JJ	emblematic	famous	20	20	he was a poet , playwright , reporter , radio actor and songwriter who composed some of ecuador 's most emblematic music .	he was a poet , playwright , reporter , radio actor and songwriter who composed some of ecuador 's most famous music .
famous	emblematic	JJ	famous	emblematic	20	20	he was a poet , playwright , reporter , radio actor and songwriter who composed some of ecuador 's most famous music .	he was a poet , playwright , reporter , radio actor and songwriter who composed some of ecuador 's most emblematic music .
respond	come	VB	respond	come	8	8	other reports say that the police could n't respond because they were in cotocollao .	other reports say that the police could n't come because they were in cotocollao .
bittersweet	confusing	JJ	bittersweet	confusing	11	11	ximena said '' the war of the worlds '' was a bittersweet memory for him .	ximena said '' the war of the worlds '' was a confusing memory for him .
mechanism	way	NN	mechanism	way	15	15	the government has long asked climbers to clear their trash , but there was no mechanism to check what people brought down .	the government has long asked climbers to clear their trash , but there was no way to check what people brought down .
hike	climb	VB	hike	climb	9	9	about 230,000 people came to nepal last year to hike the himalayas .	about 230,000 people came to nepal last year to climb the himalayas .
matrix	material	NN	matrix	material	28	28	over the last decade scientists had started to look at ancient plaque samples under a microscope , hoping to find microscopic bits of food stuck in its hard matrix .	over the last decade scientists had started to look at ancient plaque samples under a microscope , hoping to find microscopic bits of food stuck in its hard material .
artist	rapper	NN	artist	rapper	4	4	at least one quoted artist took his sign for himself .	at least one quoted rapper took his sign for himself .
scavenger	treasure	NN	scavenger	treasure	5	5	but by then , the scavenger hunt had already begun , and most of the signs were gone .	but by then , the treasure hunt had already begun , and most of the signs were gone .
test	section	NN	test	section	4	4	however , an essay-writing test still will be offered , and many colleges may demand that applicants take it and submit the score .	however , an essay-writing section still will be offered , and many colleges may demand that applicants take it and submit the score .
portfolio	set	NN	portfolio	set	12	12	the sat writing sample is just one part of a much wider portfolio of grades and personal achievements .	the sat writing sample is just one part of a much wider set of grades and personal achievements .
molten	liquid	JJ	molten	liquid	27	27	but the tiny crystal carries tremendous significance : it is evidence that by that point in its history , earth had gone from a superheated ball of molten rock to a solid surface eventually capable of supporting life .	but the tiny crystal carries tremendous significance : it is evidence that by that point in its history , earth had gone from a superheated ball of liquid rock to a solid surface eventually capable of supporting life .
tumult	violence	NN	tumult	violence	20	20	as with so many groups in this part of the world , the history of crimean tatars is steeped in tumult and tragedy .	as with so many groups in this part of the world , the history of crimean tatars is steeped in violence and tragedy .
heritage	background	NN	heritage	background	28	28	though mcfadden is focused on sochi as an athletic competition , there 's little question the games will carry an extra layer of emotion because of her russian heritage .	though mcfadden is focused on sochi as an athletic competition , there 's little question the games will carry an extra layer of emotion because of her russian background .
thus	so	RB	thus	so	11	11	the official said there was '' no evidence '' of terrorism thus far .	the official said there was '' no evidence '' of terrorism so far .
flock	group	NN	flock	group	8	8	after all , it is possible that a flock of birds or a large rock could be mistaken for a whale .	after all , it is possible that a group of birds or a large rock could be mistaken for a whale .
process	understand	VB	process	understand	11	11	it was already known that there are people who ca n't process music well .	it was already known that there are people who ca n't understand music well .
cut	song	NN	cut	song	5	5	artists with more than one cut included carlos santana , paco de lucia and beethoven .	artists with more than one song included carlos santana , paco de lucia and beethoven .
strategy	tactic	NN	strategy	tactic	1	1	the strategy probably helped him carry most of the heavily latino neighborhoods on la 's eastside in the may election .	the tactic probably helped him carry most of the heavily latino neighborhoods on la 's eastside in the may election .
tolerate	withstand	VB	tolerate	withstand	9	9	in general , experts agree that humans can safely tolerate fairly high doses of silver .	in general , experts agree that humans can safely withstand fairly high doses of silver .
encouragement	praise	NN	encouragement	praise	6	6	she yelled advice , orders and encouragement .	she yelled advice , orders and praise .
drama	problem	NN	drama	problem	7	7	each practice seems to bring a new drama .	each practice seems to bring a new problem .
solely	only	RB	solely	only	4	4	the album was offered solely through itunes .	the album was offered only through itunes .
possibility	outcome	NN	possibility	outcome	11	11	other e-cigarette opponents said they do not want to risk the possibility that the secondhand vapor will be found to be harmful .	other e-cigarette opponents said they do not want to risk the outcome that the secondhand vapor will be found to be harmful .
debate	argument	NN	debate	argument	4	4	tuesday 's city hall debate quickly turned personal .	tuesday 's city hall argument quickly turned personal .
speculation	suspicion	NN	speculation	suspicion	10	10	prime minister najib razak 's statement confirmed days of rising speculation that the disappearance of malaysia airlines flight 370 to beijing was not an accident .	prime minister najib razak 's statement confirmed days of rising suspicion that the disappearance of malaysia airlines flight 370 to beijing was not an accident .
narrative	history	NN	narrative	history	7	7	they also found evidence of a climate narrative that they could n't ignore .	they also found evidence of a climate history that they could n't ignore .
definitively	absolutely	RB	definitively	absolutely	16	16	in interviews , pederson and hessl said there was still more work to be done to definitively link the trees ' narrative with human events .	in interviews , pederson and hessl said there was still more work to be done to absolutely link the trees ' narrative with human events .
maladaptive	disadvantageous	JJ	maladaptive	disadvantageous	18	18	kronforst believes that counterbalancing selection may be at play -- some advantageous trait is paired with the seemingly maladaptive one , and both are conserved .	kronforst believes that counterbalancing selection may be at play -- some advantageous trait is paired with the seemingly disadvantageous one , and both are conserved .
bank	row	NN	bank	row	4	4	there 's even a bank of express computers that visitors , no library card needed , can use for 15 minutes .	there 's even a row of express computers that visitors , no library card needed , can use for 15 minutes .
bolster	build	VB	bolster	build	11	11	but the library has since added another 10,000 and hopes to bolster the collection with 10,000 e-books each month .	but the library has since added another 10,000 and hopes to build the collection with 10,000 e-books each month .
conversion	thinking	NN	conversion	thinking	3	3	that kind of conversion may be spreading .	that kind of thinking may be spreading .
virtual	online	JJ	virtual	online	7	7	the bibliotech attracts a steady flow of virtual visitors from around the world .	the bibliotech attracts a steady flow of online visitors from around the world .
evidence	problem	NN	evidence	problem	4	4	they 've found the evidence in all 15 of the tumors tested so far .	they 've found the problem in all 15 of the tumors tested so far .
approach	thing	NN	approach	thing	6	6	simon wanted to try the same approach with the liver cancer she 'd survived .	simon wanted to try the same thing with the liver cancer she 'd survived .
intact	complete	JJ	intact	complete	20	20	in one spectacular instance back then , a worker scraped his bulldozer across what turned out to be a nearly intact skeleton of a columbian mammoth with 10-foot-long tusks .	in one spectacular instance back then , a worker scraped his bulldozer across what turned out to be a nearly complete skeleton of a columbian mammoth with 10-foot-long tusks .
shotcrete	concrete	NN	shotcrete	concrete	7	7	above the fresh muck , wood and shotcrete had been installed to hold back the soil .	above the fresh muck , wood and concrete had been installed to hold back the soil .
create	draw	VB	create	draw	22	22	alvarado helped explain the strips of land they 'd marked , the bones they had found , and the maps she helped create .	alvarado helped explain the strips of land they 'd marked , the bones they had found , and the maps she helped draw .
flummox	baffle	VB	flummox	baffle	3	3	it would also flummox the airline industry , which will struggle to learn lessons from the incident if it does n't know what happened .	it would also baffle the airline industry , which will struggle to learn lessons from the incident if it does n't know what happened .
fabric	material	NN	fabric	material	10	10	dhaka , bangladesh -- mukhta mollah nimbly smooths the red fabric as she guides it through a sewing machine .	dhaka , bangladesh -- mukhta mollah nimbly smooths the red material as she guides it through a sewing machine .
prospect	idea	NN	prospect	idea	10	10	but he said he was n't very excited by this prospect .	but he said he was n't very excited by this idea .
legacy	history	NN	legacy	history	29	29	while we can still debate the wisdom of going to war there , there is no doubt that our total abandonment of our allies left a bloody and shameful legacy .	while we can still debate the wisdom of going to war there , there is no doubt that our total abandonment of our allies left a bloody and shameful history .
dynamic	situation	NN	dynamic	situation	20	20	so when we see current prime minister nouri al-maliki tilting toward the shiites , that is the result of the dynamic we set up with our invasion of iraq in 2003 .	so when we see current prime minister nouri al-maliki tilting toward the shiites , that is the result of the situation we set up with our invasion of iraq in 2003 .
stint	stay	NN	stint	stay	3	3	and a brief stint at home is more likely to help , rather than hinder , those goals , she says .	and a brief stay at home is more likely to help , rather than hinder , those goals , she says .
hoist	raise	VB	hoist	raise	15	15	it took all four men to carefully move the baskets , using a forklift to hoist each up and set it into a trailer .	it took all four men to carefully move the baskets , using a forklift to raise each up and set it into a trailer .
display	store	VB	display	store	8	8	he is helping officials figure out how to display their own orbiter , endeavour .	he is helping officials figure out how to store their own orbiter , endeavour .
creation	construction	NN	creation	construction	15	15	but then the california science center hired jenkins for one more gig : overseeing the creation of its shuttle display .	but then the california science center hired jenkins for one more gig : overseeing the construction of its shuttle display .
flatbed	giant	JJ	flatbed	giant	17	17	some are so large they had to be shipped across the country on the back of a flatbed truck .	some are so large they had to be shipped across the country on the back of a giant truck .
disproportionately	overly	RB	disproportionately	overly	13	13	but even before the announcement , school districts have been adjusting policies that disproportionately affect minority students .	but even before the announcement , school districts have been adjusting policies that overly affect minority students .
conclusive	indisputable	JJ	conclusive	indisputable	4	4	the infrared images provide conclusive evidence that a large bar structure consisting of millions of stars runs like a straight line through the center of the milky way and extends out to about 12,000 to 13,000 light years from the galaxy 's center .	the infrared images provide indisputable evidence that a large bar structure consisting of millions of stars runs like a straight line through the center of the milky way and extends out to about 12,000 to 13,000 light years from the galaxy 's center .
distribution	location	NN	distribution	location	2	2	the general distribution of stars in the galaxy also is now visible .	the general location of stars in the galaxy also is now visible .
seizure	takeover	NN	seizure	takeover	10	10	obama and european leaders are to discuss russia 's armed seizure of the crimean peninsula in ukraine .	obama and european leaders are to discuss russia 's armed takeover of the crimean peninsula in ukraine .
broader	deeper	JJR	broader	deeper	9	9	other european nations are worried about the effect that broader sanctions would have on their own fragile economies .	other european nations are worried about the effect that deeper sanctions would have on their own fragile economies .
shore	prop	VB	shore	prop	14	14	they all tell the story of an unstable hillside that has defied efforts to shore it up .	they all tell the story of an unstable hillside that has defied efforts to prop it up .
trendy	fancy	JJ	trendy	fancy	5	5	there are all sorts of trendy juices and bottled waters .	there are all sorts of fancy juices and bottled waters .
sleek	smooth	JJ	sleek	smooth	11	11	there appeared to be very little damage to the b-2 's sleek dark-gray surface .	there appeared to be very little damage to the b-2 's smooth dark-gray surface .
league	team	NN	league	team	2	2	now the league needs to move again .	now the team needs to move again .
undergo	get	VB	undergo	get	11	11	last summer , ivy took several weeks off to rest and undergo medical tests .	last summer , ivy took several weeks off to rest and get medical tests .
get	undergo	VB	get	undergo	11	11	last summer , ivy took several weeks off to rest and get medical tests .	last summer , ivy took several weeks off to rest and undergo medical tests .
virtual	digital	JJ	virtual	digital	11	11	in addition , homeowners could use the software to create a virtual tour of their houses before putting them up for sale , roumeliotis said .	in addition , homeowners could use the software to create a digital tour of their houses before putting them up for sale , roumeliotis said .
novel	creative	JJ	novel	creative	13	13	to do that , the university of minnesota team had to try some novel design ideas .	to do that , the university of minnesota team had to try some creative design ideas .
debris	trash	NN	debris	trash	13	13	the odds are stacked against finding it in time without a trail of debris to guide them .	the odds are stacked against finding it in time without a trail of trash to guide them .
discipline	training	NN	discipline	training	23	23	just like the boys , though , chicago-area girls who have claimed scholarships in low-profile sports have had to work for them with discipline and focus .	just like the boys , though , chicago-area girls who have claimed scholarships in low-profile sports have had to work for them with training and focus .
achievement	step	NN	achievement	step	10	10	she said this is a small , though important , achievement .	she said this is a small , though important , step .
success	survivor	NN	success	survivor	13	13	even the panther that died after nine months can be seen as a success , lotz said .	even the panther that died after nine months can be seen as a survivor , lotz said .
twinge	pang	NN	twinge	pang	9	9	beijing -- a peking duck dinner might inspire a twinge of guilt about indulging in some decadent , fatty fowl .	beijing -- a peking duck dinner might inspire a pang of guilt about indulging in some decadent , fatty fowl .
ambition	design	NN	ambition	design	24	24	da dong 's massive menu may be among the most eye-popping in town , but it 's hardly alone in its heftiness or artistic ambition .	da dong 's massive menu may be among the most eye-popping in town , but it 's hardly alone in its heftiness or artistic design .
contend	wrestle	VBP	contend	wrestle	10	10	at pure lotus , a pricey vegetarian hideaway , customers contend with a golden-paged volume stretching 21\/2 feet wide and weighing 4 pounds , 5 ounces ; and if that is n't enough , the nine-course $ 133 tasting menu is carved into an inch-thick wooden plank , also 21\/2 feet wide .	at pure lotus , a pricey vegetarian hideaway , customers wrestle with a golden-paged volume stretching 21\/2 feet wide and weighing 4 pounds , 5 ounces ; and if that is n't enough , the nine-course $ 133 tasting menu is carved into an inch-thick wooden plank , also 21\/2 feet wide .
extensive	long	JJ	extensive	long	0	0	extensive chinese menus are hardly new ; just ask anyone who 's ordered from a chinatown takeout joint in the united states .	long chinese menus are hardly new ; just ask anyone who 's ordered from a chinatown takeout joint in the united states .
elaborate	fancy	JJ	elaborate	fancy	8	8	but dong was inclined to go big and elaborate .	but dong was inclined to go big and fancy .
secure	get	VB	secure	get	11	11	traditionally , it has been difficult and costly for theaters to secure permission from sports leagues to show big games in theaters .	traditionally , it has been difficult and costly for theaters to get permission from sports leagues to show big games in theaters .
broadcast	show	VB	broadcast	show	11	11	television sports networks spend millions of dollars on the rights to broadcast games .	television sports networks spend millions of dollars on the rights to show games .
efficiently	easily	RB	efficiently	easily	9	9	the new gene allowed it to produce methane more efficiently than ever before .	the new gene allowed it to produce methane more easily than ever before .
trendiness	popularity	NN	trendiness	popularity	13	13	french singer and accordionist jessica fichot said she noticed the accordion 's increasing trendiness about eight years ago , when she graduated from music school in boston and moved to la .	french singer and accordionist jessica fichot said she noticed the accordion 's increasing popularity about eight years ago , when she graduated from music school in boston and moved to la .
memorable	striking	JJ	memorable	striking	12	12	baltimore -- professor james gates delivers his big ideas in simple but memorable terms .	baltimore -- professor james gates delivers his big ideas in simple but striking terms .
dominant	major	JJ	dominant	major	12	12	his specialty , supersymmetric string theory , seeks to mesh the two dominant branches of physics , einstein 's theory of relativity and quantum mechanics , into a single set of rules governing the universe .	his specialty , supersymmetric string theory , seeks to mesh the two major branches of physics , einstein 's theory of relativity and quantum mechanics , into a single set of rules governing the universe .
ambition	hope	NN	ambition	hope	5	5	now it is his greatest ambition to start a farm -- but not in china .	now it is his greatest hope to start a farm -- but not in china .
feature	have	VB	feature	have	3	3	the project will feature drought-tolerant plants along its bike paths .	the project will have drought-tolerant plants along its bike paths .
hope	chance	NN	hope	chance	2	2	their only hope for a healthy head of hair is to cut most of it off .	their only chance for a healthy head of hair is to cut most of it off .
texture	type	NN	texture	type	14	14	peterson hopes nyong ' o will inspire girls to love their hair length and texture , and carry themselves with poise .	peterson hopes nyong ' o will inspire girls to love their hair length and type , and carry themselves with poise .
vulnerable	civilian	JJ	vulnerable	civilian	8	8	but the united nations still fails to protect vulnerable populations when wars break out .	but the united nations still fails to protect civilian populations when wars break out .
picturesque	pretty	JJ	picturesque	pretty	14	14	yukie hashimoto and her husband sent their daughter 200 miles away , to the picturesque ski town of matsumoto .	yukie hashimoto and her husband sent their daughter 200 miles away , to the pretty ski town of matsumoto .
teach	help	VB	teach	help	3	3	such skills would teach kids to think before they act .	such skills would help kids to think before they act .
attitude	thinking	NN	attitude	thinking	8	8	roosevelt 's invitation did nothing to change the attitude of whca members .	roosevelt 's invitation did nothing to change the thinking of whca members .
factor	challenge	NN	factor	challenge	4	4	discrimination was a persistent factor for mcalpin , his son said .	discrimination was a persistent challenge for mcalpin , his son said .
apocalyptic	scary	JJ	apocalyptic	scary	22	22	the next day people walked by without a glance ; the destroyed vehicles had become one more addition to the city 's apocalyptic backdrop .	the next day people walked by without a glance ; the destroyed vehicles had become one more addition to the city 's scary backdrop .
mundane	boring	JJ	mundane	boring	25	25	not until the rumble had faded , leaving only a billowy white trail across the sky , did the people return their attention to the mundane particulars of life .	not until the rumble had faded , leaving only a billowy white trail across the sky , did the people return their attention to the boring particulars of life .
blistering	rapid	JJ	blistering	rapid	19	19	weaving through the chaotic traffic in juba , south sudan 's capital , wood and his crew set a blistering pace .	weaving through the chaotic traffic in juba , south sudan 's capital , wood and his crew set a rapid pace .
installation	site	NN	installation	site	16	16	their south sudanese guide occasionally barks orders to stop filming near a national memorial or military installation .	their south sudanese guide occasionally barks orders to stop filming near a national memorial or military site .
stick	take	VB	stick	take	13	13	she washes the eggs beforehand in water and vinegar so the dyes will stick , she said .	she washes the eggs beforehand in water and vinegar so the dyes will take , she said .
encourage	ask	VB	encourage	ask	0	0	encourage your government to plant it in parks .	ask your government to plant it in parks .
pallete	palette	NN	pallete	palette	22	22	at one point she giggled with embarrassment as she accidentally squeezed a tube of orange paint onto the painting rather than the pallete .	at one point she giggled with embarrassment as she accidentally squeezed a tube of orange paint onto the painting rather than the palette .
cauldron	center	NN	cauldron	center	5	5	their village had been a cauldron of violence since the afghan war began .	their village had been a center of violence since the afghan war began .
process	search	NN	process	search	8	8	unless the robot submarine gets lucky , the process could take a while .	unless the robot submarine gets lucky , the search could take a while .
vessel	submarine	NN	vessel	submarine	13	13	he is president of bluefin robotics , the massachusetts company that makes the vessel .	he is president of bluefin robotics , the massachusetts company that makes the submarine .
personnel	crews	NNS	personnel	crew	9	9	while the robotic sub does its duties , search personnel aboard the ocean shield and other vessels will have no idea whether it 's found anything .	while the robotic sub does its duties , search crews aboard the ocean shield and other vessels will have no idea whether it 's found anything .
deploy	use	VB	deploy	use	3	3	the decision to deploy the bluefin-21 came on day 38 of the search for the plane .	the decision to use the bluefin-21 came on day 38 of the search for the plane .
provincial	local	JJ	provincial	local	8	8	in their day jobs they work for a provincial transportation agency .	in their day jobs they work for a local transportation agency .
anomaly	outlier	NN	anomaly	outlier	16	16	jeff hendrie , an 18-year-old high school senior in metropolitan detroit , is something of an anomaly .	jeff hendrie , an 18-year-old high school senior in metropolitan detroit , is something of an outlier .
field	number	NN	field	number	14	14	a total of 35,755 athletes were registered to run the marathon , the second-largest field in its history .	a total of 35,755 athletes were registered to run the marathon , the second-largest number in its history .
tout	promote	VB	tout	promote	6	6	the league went all out to tout its newest team .	the league went all out to promote its newest team .
priority	task	NN	priority	task	2	2	his first priority is to hire a team president for the mls venture .	his first task is to hire a team president for the mls venture .
facility	ground	NN	facility	ground	11	11	he will also be exploring possible locations for a state-of-the-art training facility .	he will also be exploring possible locations for a state-of-the-art training ground .
natural	human	JJ	natural	human	17	17	they added a salt and sugar solution to the mold to recreate the sponge-like feel of a natural nose .	they added a salt and sugar solution to the mold to recreate the sponge-like feel of a human nose .
scaffold	framework	NN	scaffold	framework	24	24	stem cells were taken from the patient 's fat and grown in the lab for two weeks before being used to cover the nose scaffold .	stem cells were taken from the patient 's fat and grown in the lab for two weeks before being used to cover the nose framework .
slop	toilet	NN	slop	toilet	13	13	pretending they were going to the edge of the camp to empty their slop buckets , they fled when no one was looking .	pretending they were going to the edge of the camp to empty their toilet buckets , they fled when no one was looking .
disagree	argue	VBP	disagree	argue	1	1	they disagree over whether shops , theaters and restaurants can remain open on the jewish day of rest .	they argue over whether shops , theaters and restaurants can remain open on the jewish day of rest .
cafe	restaurant	NN	cafe	restaurant	7	7	this year , the owners of a cafe decided to open for saturday brunch .	this year , the owners of a restaurant decided to open for saturday brunch .
groundbreaking	huge	JJ	groundbreaking	huge	4	4	but they said the groundbreaking discovery suggests that a large group of earth-like planets is waiting to be found much closer to home .	but they said the huge discovery suggests that a large group of earth-like planets is waiting to be found much closer to home .
gadget	device	NN	gadget	device	1	1	the gadget has never failed .	the device has never failed .
intense	overpowering	JJ	intense	overpowering	8	8	pressure from parents to do well can be intense , students say .	pressure from parents to do well can be overpowering , students say .
deter	stop	VB	deter	stop	7	7	but those measures were n't enough to deter a teenager .	but those measures were n't enough to stop a teenager .
noticeable	definite	JJ	noticeable	definite	8	8	in the last year there 's been a noticeable tightening online and a crackdown on those who voice complaints .	in the last year there 's been a definite tightening online and a crackdown on those who voice complaints .
tenure	time	NN	tenure	time	16	16	even president barack obama weighed in on the crisis , the first of silver 's brief tenure as commissioner .	even president barack obama weighed in on the crisis , the first of silver 's brief time as commissioner .
controversy	trouble	NN	controversy	trouble	19	19	but the issues raised represent just another chapter in sterling 's long history of being at the center of controversy .	but the issues raised represent just another chapter in sterling 's long history of being at the center of trouble .
flow	water	NN	flow	water	6	6	and the fight over the extra flow was on .	and the fight over the extra water was on .
punch	poke	VBP	punch	poke	1	1	they punch holes in the bottom of a water bottle .	they poke holes in the bottom of a water bottle .
stellar	excellent	JJ	stellar	excellent	2	2	bighorns use stellar vision to spot predators and then use the rugged terrain as a means of escape .	bighorns use excellent vision to spot predators and then use the rugged terrain as a means of escape .
contraption	vehicle	NN	contraption	vehicle	4	4	nevertheless , the bright-red contraption in a swarthmore college basement is very much a race car .	nevertheless , the bright-red vehicle in a swarthmore college basement is very much a race car .
culprit	problem	NN	culprit	problem	1	1	the culprit turned out to be an emergency shut-off switch that had jammed , and macfarland had it working again in short order .	the problem turned out to be an emergency shut-off switch that had jammed , and macfarland had it working again in short order .
interaction	conversation	NN	interaction	conversation	16	16	mccabe , 39 , started spending twos about 15 years ago because she liked the added interaction with people behind the counter .	mccabe , 39 , started spending twos about 15 years ago because she liked the added conversation with people behind the counter .
landscape	area	NN	landscape	area	19	19	the 126-foot dune has been shifting away from the lake shore at an alarming rate , covering the old landscape in sand , experts have said .	the 126-foot dune has been shifting away from the lake shore at an alarming rate , covering the old area in sand , experts have said .
flush	come	VB	flush	come	3	3	water can then flush in and out with the tide , damaging the root mat .	water can then come in and out with the tide , damaging the root mat .
population	number	NN	population	number	15	15	they do n't expect to catch the last one , but rather to get the population so low that the remaining few die off .	they do n't expect to catch the last one , but rather to get the number so low that the remaining few die off .
outfit	prepare	VB	outfit	prepare	5	5	that meant he alone could outfit much of fowler high school for its first bollywood night .	that meant he alone could prepare much of fowler high school for its first bollywood night .
intricate	detailed	JJ	intricate	detailed	17	17	when she saw the work , she said , she was impressed by the unique form and intricate craftsmanship .	when she saw the work , she said , she was impressed by the unique form and detailed craftsmanship .
hue	color	NN	hue	color	19	19	when done , he usually inks and puts a finish on the bone , often giving it a particular hue .	when done , he usually inks and puts a finish on the bone , often giving it a particular color .
paratroops	soldiers	NNS	paratroops	soldier	1	1	the paratroops had taken back control of the tower from gunmen two days before .	the soldiers had taken back control of the tower from gunmen two days before .
return	release	NN	return	release	16	16	he spoke shortly after the senate passed a resolution urging the girls ' safe and immediate return .	he spoke shortly after the senate passed a resolution urging the girls ' safe and immediate release .
however	meanwhile	RB	however	meanwhile	0	0	however , fewer than 1 in 5 of their teachers is nonwhite .	meanwhile , fewer than 1 in 5 of their teachers is nonwhite .
humility	humbleness	NN	humility	humbleness	8	8	during a speech in which durant revealed a humility and vulnerability rarely displayed by a professional athlete , he also drew some laughs .	during a speech in which durant revealed a humbleness and vulnerability rarely displayed by a professional athlete , he also drew some laughs .
heartfelt	emotional	JJ	heartfelt	emotional	7	7	during his speech durant was humble and heartfelt .	during his speech durant was humble and emotional .
craft	create	VB	craft	create	4	4	the scientists working to craft breeds of animals that can cope with a warmer climate argue that they , too , are focused on depleting fewer resources .	the scientists working to create breeds of animals that can cope with a warmer climate argue that they , too , are focused on depleting fewer resources .
scandal	problem	NN	scandal	problem	2	2	the latest scandal is an nfl-style '' draft '' to pick prom dates .	the latest problem is an nfl-style '' draft '' to pick prom dates .
patriarch	leader	NN	patriarch	leader	14	14	there , beneath distinctive blue and gold onion domes , as the cathedral 's patriarch prays for '' calm and security for all ukraine , '' parishioners peel away to visit two donation boxes .	there , beneath distinctive blue and gold onion domes , as the cathedral 's leader prays for '' calm and security for all ukraine , '' parishioners peel away to visit two donation boxes .
update	replace	VB	update	replace	14	14	the ukrainian military has come up with a budget plan in recent years to update its old weapons and machinery .	the ukrainian military has come up with a budget plan in recent years to replace its old weapons and machinery .
facility	tower	NN	facility	tower	15	15	in recent years , the company has spent millions of dollars to restore the research facility and administration building .	in recent years , the company has spent millions of dollars to restore the research tower and administration building .
classic	great	JJ	classic	great	1	1	these classic buildings illustrate how wright used the natural environment in his designs , to make homes look as if they had sprung up from the soil .	these great buildings illustrate how wright used the natural environment in his designs , to make homes look as if they had sprung up from the soil .
militant	terrorist	JJ	militant	terrorist	3	3	he said the militant group was holding many other people but gave no number .	he said the terrorist group was holding many other people but gave no number .
hurtle	send	VB	hurtle	send	2	2	it will hurtle riders at 72 miles per hour -lrb- mph -rrb- down an 85-degree , 180-foot cliff .	it will send riders at 72 miles per hour -lrb- mph -rrb- down an 85-degree , 180-foot cliff .
technique	approach	NN	technique	approach	1	1	that technique allows the track to bend in ways traditional wooden rides would n't .	that approach allows the track to bend in ways traditional wooden rides would n't .
enlist	join	VB	enlist	join	4	4	they think anybody can enlist .	they think anybody can join .
colt	horse	NN	colt	horse	8	8	california chrome 's owners and trainer hope their colt will break that streak .	california chrome 's owners and trainer hope their horse will break that streak .
trend	practice	NN	trend	practice	4	4	coburn argued against that trend after the preakness .	coburn argued against that practice after the preakness .
audience	crowd	NN	audience	crowd	12	12	as long as they do , there likely will be a large audience for those races at belmont .	as long as they do , there likely will be a large crowd for those races at belmont .
pinpoint	figure	VB	pinpoint	figure	4	4	they were trying to pinpoint how quickly the giant thwaites might disappear altogether .	they were trying to figure how quickly the giant thwaites might disappear altogether .
chaotic	disastrous	JJ	chaotic	disastrous	9	9	that amount of sea level rise would have a chaotic impact .	that amount of sea level rise would have a disastrous impact .
extreme	unusual	JJ	extreme	unusual	8	8	but few people his age face such an extreme choice : he must decide between becoming a lawyer -- or dying on the surface of mars .	but few people his age face such an unusual choice : he must decide between becoming a lawyer -- or dying on the surface of mars .
candidate	choice	NN	candidate	choice	12	12	but in other ways , he says , he 's a perfect candidate .	but in other ways , he says , he 's a perfect choice .
dilemma	mindset	NN	dilemma	mindset	6	6	piquero said that 's a typical dilemma for many juvenile offenders .	piquero said that 's a typical mindset for many juvenile offenders .
kid	person	NN	kid	person	11	11	with note cards , however , the number of words a kid can use is limited .	with note cards , however , the number of words a person can use is limited .
sous	assistant	JJ	sous	assistant	3	3	some have become sous chefs .	some have become assistant chefs .
prominent	obvious	JJ	prominent	obvious	5	5	if the doorbell was more prominent , he said , hostile neighbors would ring it day and night .	if the doorbell was more obvious , he said , hostile neighbors would ring it day and night .
dramatic	big	JJ	dramatic	big	5	5	that irrigation has already caused dramatic changes .	that irrigation has already caused big changes .
distill	simplify	VB	distill	simplify	11	11	angelou said she saw it as a literary challenge : to distill an inspiration into two sentences .	angelou said she saw it as a literary challenge : to simplify an inspiration into two sentences .
forum	debate	NN	forum	debate	5	5	after hosting a school meal forum in his home state last month , aderholt said it was time '' to hit the pause button '' on new guidelines .	after hosting a school meal debate in his home state last month , aderholt said it was time '' to hit the pause button '' on new guidelines .
miraculous	unbelievable	JJ	miraculous	unbelievable	3	3	in an almost miraculous find in september 2012 , they unearthed the skeleton of an adult male .	in an almost unbelievable find in september 2012 , they unearthed the skeleton of an adult male .
affable	friendly	JJ	affable	friendly	3	3	juan carlos ' affable and easy-going personality helped to add a common touch to an exceptionally unstuffy monarchy .	juan carlos ' friendly and easy-going personality helped to add a common touch to an exceptionally unstuffy monarchy .
legislative	political	JJ	legislative	political	10	10	washington -- michelle obama has steered clear of most messy legislative battles .	washington -- michelle obama has steered clear of most messy political battles .
confrontational	tough	JJ	confrontational	tough	1	1	the confrontational remarks were new for the first lady .	the tough remarks were new for the first lady .
nutritious	healthy	JJ	nutritious	healthy	8	8	officials argued against having lawmakers determine what is nutritious , noting that lawmakers have bent to food industry complaints in the past , such as an effort in 2011 to classify pizza with tomato sauce as a vegetable .	officials argued against having lawmakers determine what is healthy , noting that lawmakers have bent to food industry complaints in the past , such as an effort in 2011 to classify pizza with tomato sauce as a vegetable .
classify	count	VB	classify	count	30	30	officials argued against having lawmakers determine what is healthy , noting that lawmakers have bent to food industry complaints in the past , such as an effort in 2011 to classify pizza with tomato sauce as a vegetable .	officials argued against having lawmakers determine what is healthy , noting that lawmakers have bent to food industry complaints in the past , such as an effort in 2011 to count pizza with tomato sauce as a vegetable .
down	free	JJ	down	free	20	20	he was quiet , reserved , unwilling to share the personal details other soldiers eagerly volunteered during endless hours of down time .	he was quiet , reserved , unwilling to share the personal details other soldiers eagerly volunteered during endless hours of free time .
argue	believe	VBP	argue	believe	1	1	they argue it is the intensely starry remains of one galaxy that has been consumed by another .	they believe it is the intensely starry remains of one galaxy that has been consumed by another .
astronomer	scientist	NN	astronomer	scientist	12	12	experiences like theirs could bring more students into the sciences , said astronomer natalie batalha .	experiences like theirs could bring more students into the sciences , said scientist natalie batalha .
prehistoric	ancient	JJ	prehistoric	ancient	6	6	divers came across a trove of prehistoric animal bones and one of the oldest , most complete human skeletons in the western hemisphere .	divers came across a trove of ancient animal bones and one of the oldest , most complete human skeletons in the western hemisphere .
prominent	large	JJ	prominent	large	10	10	both skeletons have narrow brain cases , short faces and prominent foreheads .	both skeletons have narrow brain cases , short faces and large foreheads .
sinkhole	hole	NN	sinkhole	hole	6	6	the girl probably fell through a sinkhole into the chamber .	the girl probably fell through a hole into the chamber .
play	record	VB	play	record	9	9	it says the studio is hiring foreign musicians to play music for movies filmed in the united states .	it says the studio is hiring foreign musicians to record music for movies filmed in the united states .
substantially	heavily	RB	substantially	heavily	5	5	but their earnings have fallen substantially in recent years .	but their earnings have fallen heavily in recent years .
dissipate	shed	VB	dissipate	shed	25	25	to make sure that their trees-as-air-conditioners theory was plausible , they came up with an equation to determine just how much heat a koala could dissipate by hugging a cool tree .	to make sure that their trees-as-air-conditioners theory was plausible , they came up with an equation to determine just how much heat a koala could shed by hugging a cool tree .
conservation	nature	NN	conservation	nature	7	7	the findings were published recently in the conservation magazine oryx .	the findings were published recently in the nature magazine oryx .
confirm	know	VB	confirm	know	10	10	the world wildlife fund said long-term research is needed to confirm if the migration is annual and fixed .	the world wildlife fund said long-term research is needed to know if the migration is annual and fixed .
determine	tell	VB	determine	tell	4	4	the sportvu system can determine how much players run during games .	the sportvu system can tell how much players run during games .
access	see	VB	access	see	2	2	fans can access some of the sportvu data on the nba 's website .	fans can see some of the sportvu data on the nba 's website .
destructive	dangerous	JJ	destructive	dangerous	8	8	but , the eye wall is the most destructive part .	but , the eye wall is the most dangerous part .
resilient	tough	JJ	resilient	tough	6	6	brazil 's first opponent was a resilient but ultimately outclassed croatian side .	brazil 's first opponent was a tough but ultimately outclassed croatian side .
donate	provide	VB	donate	provide	11	11	eventually , however , other chemical companies will be asked to donate dyes as well .	eventually , however , other chemical companies will be asked to provide dyes as well .
impact	benefit	NN	impact	benefit	3	3	garces said the impact of such lessons '' is pretty instant .	garces said the benefit of such lessons '' is pretty instant .
vicious	painful	JJ	vicious	painful	7	7	fire ants may be famous for their vicious sting .	fire ants may be famous for their painful sting .
brutal	painful	JJ	brutal	painful	7	7	fire ants may be famous for their brutal sting .	fire ants may be famous for their painful sting .
knowledge	breakthrough	NN	knowledge	breakthrough	1	1	this knowledge , described in a paper in the journal of experimental biology , may one day help engineers build self-healing buildings and bridges .	this breakthrough , described in a paper in the journal of experimental biology , may one day help engineers build self-healing buildings and bridges .
complicated	amazing	JJ	complicated	amazing	7	7	scientists are just beginning to understand how complicated ant architecture really is .	scientists are just beginning to understand how amazing ant architecture really is .
similar	other	JJ	similar	other	3	3	there have been similar bold thefts of motorcycles in wisconsin 's fox valley this spring .	there have been other bold thefts of motorcycles in wisconsin 's fox valley this spring .
ancestry	background	NN	ancestry	background	12	12	coxaj is short and has the thick black hair of his mayan ancestry .	coxaj is short and has the thick black hair of his mayan background .
prestigious	respected	JJ	prestigious	respected	22	22	a kenyan woman , mary okello , is celebrated for starting a school inside a three-bedroom house that has since become a prestigious group of private schools .	a kenyan woman , mary okello , is celebrated for starting a school inside a three-bedroom house that has since become a respected group of private schools .
hawker	seller	NN	hawker	seller	23	23	on a recent evening , as she prepared to clean up and pack her saucepans , she pondered her unlikely journey from failed hawker of bed sheets to successful caterer with a long line of loyal clients .	on a recent evening , as she prepared to clean up and pack her saucepans , she pondered her unlikely journey from failed seller of bed sheets to successful caterer with a long line of loyal clients .
generate	make	VBP	generate	make	11	11	oceans absorb about 25 percent of the carbon dioxide that humans generate .	oceans absorb about 25 percent of the carbon dioxide that humans make .
abandon	lose	VB	abandon	lose	7	7	it does n't force the team to abandon the name .	it does n't force the team to lose the name .
essentially	almost	RB	essentially	almost	5	5	in 1999 , it ruled essentially the same way it has now .	in 1999 , it ruled almost the same way it has now .
proceedings	events	NNS	proceedings	event	15	15	until then , it was one of several patriotic melodies featured at official or military proceedings .	until then , it was one of several patriotic melodies featured at official or military events .
anthem	song	NN	anthem	song	1	1	the anthem has become much more than poetic words and popular music .	the song has become much more than poetic words and popular music .
tantalizing	delicious	JJ	tantalizing	delicious	4	4	then they offered up tantalizing grasshoppers behind the glass .	then they offered up delicious grasshoppers behind the glass .
structural	other	JJ	structural	other	0	0	structural adhesives like glue harden to form a permanent bond .	other adhesives like glue harden to form a permanent bond .
dramatic	breathtaking	JJ	dramatic	breathtaking	5	5	then it pops in a dramatic explosion .	then it pops in a breathtaking explosion .
perilous	difficult	JJ	perilous	difficult	3	3	things could turn perilous , though , if the payload had landed on a high peak .	things could turn difficult , though , if the payload had landed on a high peak .
decayed	old	JJ	decayed	old	15	15	even worse , when they were n't covered in rock , they were covered in decayed pine needles .	even worse , when they were n't covered in rock , they were covered in old pine needles .
chronic	ongoing	JJ	chronic	ongoing	4	4	nurses help children manage chronic conditions such as asthma , diabetes and seizures so they do n't miss school .	nurses help children manage ongoing conditions such as asthma , diabetes and seizures so they do n't miss school .
imagery	technology	NN	imagery	technology	4	4	using advances in infrared imagery , they have uncovered a hidden portrait of a bow-tied man with his face resting on his hand .	using advances in infrared technology , they have uncovered a hidden portrait of a bow-tied man with his face resting on his hand .
revelation	discovery	NN	revelation	discovery	4	4	it will examine the revelation of the man 's portrait beneath the painting , as well as other picasso works and his engagement with other artists .	it will examine the discovery of the man 's portrait beneath the painting , as well as other picasso works and his engagement with other artists .
have	face	VBP	have	face	6	6	after the surgery , athletes usually have six months of rehabilitation exercises before they can return to sports .	after the surgery , athletes usually face six months of rehabilitation exercises before they can return to sports .
solidarity	togetherness	NN	solidarity	togetherness	26	26	for bashir khalil , a 39-year-old shiite , and his wife nidal , a sunni , ramadan has been robbed of its rhythm of community and solidarity .	for bashir khalil , a 39-year-old shiite , and his wife nidal , a sunni , ramadan has been robbed of its rhythm of community and togetherness .
protective	safe	JJ	protective	safe	10	10	but he said that schools should at least be a protective space for students .	but he said that schools should at least be a safe space for students .
eligible	able	JJ	eligible	able	17	17	schools where 40 percent or more of the students automatically qualify for the school lunch program are eligible to use community eligibility .	schools where 40 percent or more of the students automatically qualify for the school lunch program are able to use community eligibility .
wail	wait	VB	wail	wait	7	7	but high schools there will have to wail .	but high schools there will have to wait .
begrudge	resent	VB	begrudge	resent	3	3	i do n't begrudge my foreign friends ' love of soccer .	i do n't resent my foreign friends ' love of soccer .
coordination	skill	NN	coordination	skill	5	5	the level of teamwork and coordination demanded of athletes , and strategic thinking of coaches , is simply far higher in american sports .	the level of teamwork and skill demanded of athletes , and strategic thinking of coaches , is simply far higher in american sports .
statistics	numbers	NNS	statistics	number	6	6	american sports are famously buried in statistics , but all these stats are meaningful in understanding who won and why .	american sports are famously buried in numbers , but all these stats are meaningful in understanding who won and why .
villa	residence	NN	villa	residence	10	10	when the activists tried to march peacefully to the presidential villa in may , they were blocked by soldiers and police .	when the activists tried to march peacefully to the presidential residence in may , they were blocked by soldiers and police .
fuselage	body	NN	fuselage	body	11	11	one rebel militiaman in rozsypne told the ap the plane 's fuselage showed signs of being struck by a missile .	one rebel militiaman in rozsypne told the ap the plane 's body showed signs of being struck by a missile .
not	hardly	RB	not	hardly	7	7	as it is , there is already not enough water .	as it is , there is already hardly enough water .
lure	bring	VB	lure	bring	6	6	something about cleveland was beginning to lure back young people .	something about cleveland was beginning to bring back young people .
borough	town	NN	borough	town	18	18	he said he was surprised by the criticism from the ramapough lenape nation , but acknowledged that the borough had not reached out to them about any possible alterations to its logo .	he said he was surprised by the criticism from the ramapough lenape nation , but acknowledged that the town had not reached out to them about any possible alterations to its logo .
heritage	history	NN	heritage	history	3	3	franklin lakes ' heritage is rooted in the native american culture .	franklin lakes ' history is rooted in the native american culture .
maximum	total	NN	maximum	total	22	22	if he or she sells six to eight pieces , two pieces are donated -- and so on , up to a maximum of six pieces donated per year .	if he or she sells six to eight pieces , two pieces are donated -- and so on , up to a total of six pieces donated per year .
much	high	JJ	much	high	2	2	she had much praise for the payment in kind program .	she had high praise for the payment in kind program .
prodigious	enormous	JJ	prodigious	enormous	19	19	of course , not every artist who makes a living from selling his or her work is endowed with prodigious talent .	of course , not every artist who makes a living from selling his or her work is endowed with enormous talent .
task	goal	NN	task	goal	2	2	the second task is more difficult than the first , millward explained .	the second goal is more difficult than the first , millward explained .
system	shield	NN	system	shield	11	11	most of the rockets were destroyed by the iron dome antimissile system or fell harmlessly .	most of the rockets were destroyed by the iron dome antimissile shield or fell harmlessly .
intact	full	JJ	intact	full	19	19	walking hundreds of miles a year , richardson has uncovered four new species of dinosaur , including the only intact head and spine of a kosmoceratops .	walking hundreds of miles a year , richardson has uncovered four new species of dinosaur , including the only full head and spine of a kosmoceratops .
precarious	narrow	JJ	precarious	narrow	22	22	the year was 2006 , and just after a thrashing rain richardson spied weathered bones in the dirt while hiking along a precarious ridgeline a few miles north of his current campsite .	the year was 2006 , and just after a thrashing rain richardson spied weathered bones in the dirt while hiking along a narrow ridgeline a few miles north of his current campsite .
similar	such	JJ	similar	such	5	5	countries including china have held similar events for years .	countries including china have held such events for years .
invest	operate	VBP	invest	operate	16	16	he noted that when american companies like microsoft , procter &amp; amp ; gamble or ge invest in africa , they generally hire and train africans .	he noted that when american companies like microsoft , procter &amp; amp ; gamble or ge operate in africa , they generally hire and train africans .
civic	public	JJ	civic	public	12	12	it is the first time , said haggis , that two large civic buildings of the period have been unearthed .	it is the first time , said haggis , that two large public buildings of the period have been unearthed .
production	show	NN	production	show	1	1	the production next moves on to central america and the caribbean .	the show next moves on to central america and the caribbean .
bond	friendship	NN	bond	friendship	3	3	the girls ' bond does n't end on the baseball field .	the girls ' friendship does n't end on the baseball field .
invoke	prompt	VB	invoke	prompt	19	19	she listened to the way dungan interacted with her parents and two brothers , then used similar phrasing to invoke a response , she said .	she listened to the way dungan interacted with her parents and two brothers , then used similar phrasing to prompt a response , she said .
leftovers	reminders	NNS	leftovers	reminder	13	13	midmorning visitors to the palm springs air museum moved slowly past shined-up war leftovers .	midmorning visitors to the palm springs air museum moved slowly past shined-up war reminders .
stipend	payment	NN	stipend	payment	21	21	for the last two years , he has funded his exhibits out of his own pocket with only the occasional small stipend from a museum or library .	for the last two years , he has funded his exhibits out of his own pocket with only the occasional small payment from a museum or library .
spell	cause	VB	spell	cause	2	2	this could spell trouble for the grizzlies .	this could cause trouble for the grizzlies .
dampen	hurt	VB	dampen	hurt	9	9	the changes angered some traditionalists but did little to dampen the ride 's popularity .	the changes angered some traditionalists but did little to hurt the ride 's popularity .
abundant	large	JJ	abundant	large	8	8	olson said the alligator population at loxahatchee is abundant .	olson said the alligator population at loxahatchee is large .
encounter	see	VB	encounter	see	14	14	the hunt is timed so that few if any visitors to the refuge will encounter any hunters , olson said .	the hunt is timed so that few if any visitors to the refuge will see any hunters , olson said .
disconsolate	inconsolable	JJ	disconsolate	inconsolable	15	15	baki , whose wife in lincoln gave birth to a boy days ago , was disconsolate about events on the other side of the world .	baki , whose wife in lincoln gave birth to a boy days ago , was inconsolable about events on the other side of the world .
digging	work	NN	digging	work	8	8	the humidity , heat and muddy soil made digging difficult .	the humidity , heat and muddy soil made work difficult .
role	place	NN	role	place	13	13	she describes herself as a '' trailblazer '' and said she celebrates her role in history .	she describes herself as a '' trailblazer '' and said she celebrates her place in history .
place	effect	NN	place	effect	11	11	nixon did not say how long the curfew would be in place .	nixon did not say how long the curfew would be in effect .
complex	center	NN	complex	center	5	5	they also barricaded a shopping complex about half a mile down the road .	they also barricaded a shopping center about half a mile down the road .
procession	line	NN	procession	line	18	18	at least 200 demonstrators holding signs and chanting cries for justice marched along the avenue in a peaceful procession .	at least 200 demonstrators holding signs and chanting cries for justice marched along the avenue in a peaceful line .
disperse	leave	VB	disperse	leave	8	8	officers in riot gear ordered all protesters to disperse .	officers in riot gear ordered all protesters to leave .
house	hold	VB	house	hold	19	19	from 2004 to 2010 , the federal government hired a youth jail center in vincennes , indiana , to house immigrant children .	from 2004 to 2010 , the federal government hired a youth jail center in vincennes , indiana , to hold immigrant children .
rhetoric	talk	NN	rhetoric	talk	2	2	although compassionate rhetoric about immigrants is good politics , it is not good policy .	although compassionate talk about immigrants is good politics , it is not good policy .
trek	journey	NN	trek	journey	15	15	one thing we all can agree upon is that no one should risk the thousand-mile trek through mexico .	one thing we all can agree upon is that no one should risk the thousand-mile journey through mexico .
measure	proposal	NN	measure	proposal	8	8	republicans made these arguments while crafting a tough measure .	republicans made these arguments while crafting a tough proposal .
legitimate	peaceful	JJ	legitimate	peaceful	8	8	and they interrupt the deeper conversation that the legitimate demonstrators are trying to advance .	and they interrupt the deeper conversation that the peaceful demonstrators are trying to advance .
mayhem	violence	NN	mayhem	violence	12	12	the debate fits into a larger pattern : a huge upsurge of mayhem in the 1970s and 1980s led to tough-on-crime measures across the country .	the debate fits into a larger pattern : a huge upsurge of violence in the 1970s and 1980s led to tough-on-crime measures across the country .
increase	jump	NN	increase	jump	4	4	there was a huge increase in violence in the 1970s and 1980s .	there was a huge jump in violence in the 1970s and 1980s .
excessive	overpowering	JJ	excessive	overpowering	12	12	lack of training and leadership can be as big a problem as excessive equipment , said ron mccarthy .	lack of training and leadership can be as big a problem as overpowering equipment , said ron mccarthy .
statistic	fact	NN	statistic	fact	22	22	the zoo participates in the american association of zoos and aquariums ' 96 elephants campaign , which draws attention to a startling statistic : 96 wild elephants are poached every day .	the zoo participates in the american association of zoos and aquariums ' 96 elephants campaign , which draws attention to a startling fact : 96 wild elephants are poached every day .
creation	robot	NN	creation	robot	6	6	three teenage girls question whether their creation will be ready for its next challenge .	three teenage girls question whether their robot will be ready for its next challenge .
descent	background	NN	descent	background	9	9	but for americans of middle eastern and north african descent , or '' mena , '' it 's a real head-scratcher .	but for americans of middle eastern and north african background , or '' mena , '' it 's a real head-scratcher .
unperturbed	unaffected	JJ	unperturbed	unaffected	29	29	in its song '' deyman ijebeh , '' arabic for '' always positive , '' ashekman makes fun of what they see as attempts by the lebanese to appear unperturbed by their country 's instability .	in its song '' deyman ijebeh , '' arabic for '' always positive , '' ashekman makes fun of what they see as attempts by the lebanese to appear unaffected by their country 's instability .
crude	simple	JJ	crude	simple	14	14	they saved items buried beneath thick layers of sand and driftwood : arrowheads , crude stone tools , rope and fabric woven out of sea grass .	they saved items buried beneath thick layers of sand and driftwood : arrowheads , simple stone tools , rope and fabric woven out of sea grass .
pseudonym	name	NN	pseudonym	name	20	20	no one has come forward as its creator , but he or she -- or they -- operate under the pseudonym satoshi nakamoto .	no one has come forward as its creator , but he or she -- or they -- operate under the name satoshi nakamoto .
suv	car	NN	suv	car	3	3	naylor drives her suv through a beautiful area .	naylor drives her car through a beautiful area .
hum	noise	NN	hum	noise	13	13	they want the sound of blowing wind and singing birds , not the hum of traffic .	they want the sound of blowing wind and singing birds , not the noise of traffic .
obscene	offensive	JJ	obscene	offensive	17	17	after the mainstream attention and online discussions , the giants added '' culturally insensitive '' garb to obscene language , abusive behavior and other misdeeds that can get fans thrown out of the stadium .	after the mainstream attention and online discussions , the giants added '' culturally insensitive '' garb to offensive language , abusive behavior and other misdeeds that can get fans thrown out of the stadium .
leadership	power	NN	leadership	power	7	7	the war bonnet was their symbol of leadership , he said .	the war bonnet was their symbol of power , he said .
requirement	limit	NN	requirement	limit	4	4	there is no age requirement for shooting at the range , and children seem to visit it most weekends .	there is no age limit for shooting at the range , and children seem to visit it most weekends .
silhouette	outline	NN	silhouette	outline	13	13	blake carrington took aim at a paper target with the black and blue silhouette of a person .	blake carrington took aim at a paper target with the black and blue outline of a person .
coastline	coast	NN	coastline	coast	14	14	they visited the elwha dam-removal project , saw the duwamish river and the pacific coastline .	they visited the elwha dam-removal project , saw the duwamish river and the pacific coast .
identify	name	VB	identify	name	3	3	daniel can also identify the head of the israeli army and the top hamas political leaders .	daniel can also name the head of the israeli army and the top hamas political leaders .
industry	airline	NN	industry	airline	4	4	such moves have led industry profits to near-record levels .	such moves have led airline profits to near-record levels .
doctoral	graduate	JJ	doctoral	graduate	7	7	she was exploring the question as a doctoral student a few years ago when vanburen tracked her down .	she was exploring the question as a graduate student a few years ago when vanburen tracked her down .
virulent	deadly	JJ	virulent	deadly	10	10	their insights may help us understand what makes it so virulent and point the way to better treatments .	their insights may help us understand what makes it so deadly and point the way to better treatments .
park	zoo	NN	park	zoo	2	2	in the park was a pack of 12 wolves .	in the zoo was a pack of 12 wolves .
mobile	online	JJ	mobile	online	3	3	that could make mobile payments easier by letting users register the prints of multiple fingers or sign their signature more easily on their smartphone screens , margolis said .	that could make online payments easier by letting users register the prints of multiple fingers or sign their signature more easily on their smartphone screens , margolis said .
assess	debate	VBP	assess	debate	10	10	analysts say smartphone manufacturers will be watching apple as they assess whether to use sapphire in their own devices .	analysts say smartphone manufacturers will be watching apple as they debate whether to use sapphire in their own devices .
debate	consider	VBP	debate	consider	10	10	analysts say smartphone manufacturers will be watching apple as they debate whether to use sapphire in their own devices .	analysts say smartphone manufacturers will be watching apple as they consider whether to use sapphire in their own devices .
simply	just	RB	simply	just	14	14	nothing could have attacked dreadnoughtus and won , scientists say , because it was simply too big .	nothing could have attacked dreadnoughtus and won , scientists say , because it was just too big .
specimen	dinosaur	NN	specimen	dinosaur	1	1	the specimen found in patagonia died sometime between 66 million and 84 million years ago .	the dinosaur found in patagonia died sometime between 66 million and 84 million years ago .
remains	bones	NNS	remains	bone	6	6	lacovara first stumbled on the crumbled remains of the dreadnoughtus during a fossil-hunting trip in february 2005 .	lacovara first stumbled on the crumbled bones of the dreadnoughtus during a fossil-hunting trip in february 2005 .
area	section	NN	area	section	5	5	it will include a 12-bed area for health workers who become sick .	it will include a 12-bed section for health workers who become sick .
prove	be	VB	prove	be	3	3	the project may prove too ambitious , however .	the project may be too ambitious , however .
ambitious	difficult	JJ	ambitious	difficult	5	5	the project may be too ambitious , however .	the project may be too difficult , however .
striking	major	JJ	striking	major	5	5	obama 's announcement is a striking shift for the president .	obama 's announcement is a major shift for the president .
network	plan	NN	network	plan	9	9	what she found was the story of a rescue network set up by a jewish businessman , sam van perlstein .	what she found was the story of a rescue plan set up by a jewish businessman , sam van perlstein .
documentary	movie	NN	documentary	movie	7	7	betsalel is turning the story into a documentary .	betsalel is turning the story into a movie .
show	say	VB	show	say	3	3	he needed to show that he was only part jewish .	he needed to say that he was only part jewish .
underground	resistance	NN	underground	resistance	6	6	others , including members of the underground and british pilots , also were saved .	others , including members of the resistance and british pilots , also were saved .
cell	group	NN	cell	group	6	6	he said the head of the cell had also been arrested .	he said the head of the group had also been arrested .
bowdlerize	censor	VB	bowdlerize	censor	3	3	or they could bowdlerize the course material in the name of sensitivity .	or they could censor the course material in the name of sensitivity .
beat	street	NN	beat	street	11	11	kadra mohamed , 22 , is a new cop on the beat .	kadra mohamed , 22 , is a new cop on the street .
extremely	very	RB	extremely	very	7	7	health problems among native people have become extremely widespread and serious , she said .	health problems among native people have become very widespread and serious , she said .
referendum	election	NN	referendum	election	24	24	glasgow , scotland -- across scotland , dinner table talk is getting heated as families argue over how to vote in scotland 's independence referendum .	glasgow , scotland -- across scotland , dinner table talk is getting heated as families argue over how to vote in scotland 's independence election .
battle	race	NN	battle	race	10	10	republican representative tom cotton , who 's in a neck-and-neck battle for the senate against democratic incumbent mark pryor , does n't own property in the state .	republican representative tom cotton , who 's in a neck-and-neck race for the senate against democratic incumbent mark pryor , does n't own property in the state .
appear	are	VBP	appear	be	1	1	many appear frightened by loud noises .	many are frightened by loud noises .
enriched	mixed	JJ	enriched	mixed	3	3	meals include porridge enriched with stewed canned meat .	meals include porridge mixed with stewed canned meat .
campaign	decision	NN	campaign	decision	10	10	many saw it as a '' heads versus hearts '' campaign .	many saw it as a '' heads versus hearts '' decision .
inclination	desire	NN	inclination	desire	6	6	and we humans have shown no inclination to stop the activities -- overexploitation for food , habitat destruction and others -- that drive extinction .	and we humans have shown no desire to stop the activities -- overexploitation for food , habitat destruction and others -- that drive extinction .
entry	article	NN	entry	article	2	2	the britannica entry was near the middle of page 2 .	the britannica article was near the middle of page 2 .
site	village	NN	site	village	17	17	had the work not started when it did in 2009 , thousands of artifacts at this one site would have washed away .	had the work not started when it did in 2009 , thousands of artifacts at this one village would have washed away .
confirm	support	VBP	confirm	support	2	2	the artifacts confirm and add detail to the stories of the village , knecht said .	the artifacts support and add detail to the stories of the village , knecht said .
ivory	tusk	NN	ivory	tusk	7	7	a tiny seal amulet made of mammoth ivory .	a tiny seal amulet made of mammoth tusk .
evolution	history	NN	evolution	history	7	7	pieces of model kayaks that show the evolution of the design .	pieces of model kayaks that show the history of the design .
recreate	try	VB	recreate	try	4	4	it inspired him to recreate some of the designs .	it inspired him to try some of the designs .
puny	thin	JJ	puny	thin	5	5	mars ' atmosphere is so puny , it amounts to less than one percent of earth 's .	mars ' atmosphere is so thin , it amounts to less than one percent of earth 's .
maneuver	move	NN	maneuver	move	8	8	on sunday night , it completed a tricky maneuver that allowed mars ' gravity to pull it into orbit .	on sunday night , it completed a tricky move that allowed mars ' gravity to pull it into orbit .
juggernaut	rise	NN	juggernaut	rise	9	9	pollution is the dark side of china 's economic juggernaut .	pollution is the dark side of china 's economic rise .
arable	usable	JJ	arable	usable	9	9	industrial contaminants have fouled about one-fifth of china 's arable farmland .	industrial contaminants have fouled about one-fifth of china 's usable farmland .
heavily	very	RB	heavily	very	9	9	three-fourths of the nation 's lakes and rivers are heavily polluted .	three-fourths of the nation 's lakes and rivers are very polluted .
melee	fight	NN	melee	fight	21	21	in may , a protest of a planned waste incinerator in hangzhou , south of shanghai , also turned into a melee .	in may , a protest of a planned waste incinerator in hangzhou , south of shanghai , also turned into a fight .
generate	make	VB	generate	make	7	7	by 2030 , it is expected to generate twice as much waste as the united states .	by 2030 , it is expected to make twice as much waste as the united states .
insurance	care	NN	insurance	care	17	17	last year , the delaware and maryland extensions developed a training program to help people buy health insurance .	last year , the delaware and maryland extensions developed a training program to help people buy health care .
service	water	NN	service	water	3	3	peasant said her service was unexpectedly restored in june by a woman she believed to be a dwsd worker .	peasant said her water was unexpectedly restored in june by a woman she believed to be a dwsd worker .
laudable	excellent	JJ	laudable	excellent	6	6	most parents would agree these are laudable goals .	most parents would agree these are excellent goals .
virtual	near	JJ	virtual	near	14	14	if it had also won the fighter competition , it would have held a virtual monopoly on air force combat jets .	if it had also won the fighter competition , it would have held a near monopoly on air force combat jets .
build	get	VB	build	get	8	8	this put lockheed in a stronger position to build political support in congress .	this put lockheed in a stronger position to get political support in congress .
conflict	fighting	NN	conflict	fighting	8	8	there was no call for it in the conflict above libya .	there was no call for it in the fighting above libya .
outgun	overpower	VB	outgun	overpower	22	22	but those f-15s still represent the majority of a so-called '' air superiority fleet '' -- the jets that are supposed to outgun enemy aircraft and gain control of the sky .	but those f-15s still represent the majority of a so-called '' air superiority fleet '' -- the jets that are supposed to overpower enemy aircraft and gain control of the sky .
deprivation	loss	NN	deprivation	loss	28	28	the next year , then-defense secretary leon panetta directed the air force to allow f-22s to fly only near potential landing sites in case a pilot experienced oxygen deprivation .	the next year , then-defense secretary leon panetta directed the air force to allow f-22s to fly only near potential landing sites in case a pilot experienced oxygen loss .
scandal	incident	NN	scandal	incident	10	10	pierson had been appointed in the wake of a 2012 scandal in which a dozen agents allegedly hired prostitutes in colombia while preparing for a presidential trip .	pierson had been appointed in the wake of a 2012 incident in which a dozen agents allegedly hired prostitutes in colombia while preparing for a presidential trip .
kindling	firewood	NN	kindling	firewood	15	15	the sidewalk was lined with yellow weeds , dying grass and trees more fit for kindling than shade .	the sidewalk was lined with yellow weeds , dying grass and trees more fit for firewood than shade .
implore	urge	VB	implore	urge	2	2	they will implore citizens who might have come in contact with duncan to go to the hospital and to contact the cdc .	they will urge citizens who might have come in contact with duncan to go to the hospital and to contact the cdc .
mammal	animal	NN	mammal	animal	13	13	science and years of experience prove that there is no danger to marine mammal populations , it added .	science and years of experience prove that there is no danger to marine animal populations , it added .
lattice	structure	NN	lattice	structure	19	19	inside semiconductors , electrons and '' holes , '' or spaces without electrons , can move around the crystal lattice to allow electrical current to flow .	inside semiconductors , electrons and '' holes , '' or spaces without electrons , can move around the crystal structure to allow electrical current to flow .
hold	control	VBP	hold	control	20	20	a cease-fire is in place -- more or less -- in ukraine between its government and the separatists , who hold the major eastern cities of donetsk and luhansk .	a cease-fire is in place -- more or less -- in ukraine between its government and the separatists , who control the major eastern cities of donetsk and luhansk .
calm	peace	NN	calm	peace	7	7	and perhaps a third group just wants calm .	and perhaps a third group just wants peace .
solution	plan	NN	solution	plan	11	11	the ukrainian government and the separatists have to work out a solution to please everyone .	the ukrainian government and the separatists have to work out a plan to please everyone .
figure	scenario	NN	figure	scenario	2	2	but that figure could be avoided .	but that scenario could be avoided .
honor	prize	NN	honor	prize	1	1	the honor was n't just a turning point for king and the civil rights movement , but also for atlanta .	the prize was n't just a turning point for king and the civil rights movement , but also for atlanta .
curator	head	NN	curator	head	4	4	kelly flaherty clark , curator of animal training at seaworld , said the changes concern her .	kelly flaherty clark , head of animal training at seaworld , said the changes concern her .
citation	ban	NN	citation	ban	10	10	this year , seaworld decided to give up fighting a citation that effectively bars trainers from performing in the water with killer whales .	this year , seaworld decided to give up fighting a ban that effectively bars trainers from performing in the water with killer whales .
ban	stop	VB	ban	stop	14	14	in california , a bill in the legislature was proposed this year that would ban killer whale shows and breeding .	in california , a bill in the legislature was proposed this year that would stop killer whale shows and breeding .
tense	difficult	JJ	tense	difficult	3	3	the conversation was tense , she said .	the conversation was difficult , she said .
unfounded	false	JJ	unfounded	false	10	10	some of the concerns are warranted ; others are largely unfounded .	some of the concerns are warranted ; others are largely false .
energy	oil	NN	energy	oil	14	14	it will be key to lithuania 's plans to reduce its reliance on russian energy .	it will be key to lithuania 's plans to reduce its reliance on russian oil .
ceo	head	NN	ceo	head	4	4	heather arnet is the ceo of the women &amp; amp ; girls foundation of western pennsylvania .	heather arnet is the head of the women &amp; amp ; girls foundation of western pennsylvania .
cordon	blockade	NN	cordon	blockade	8	8	but by late in the evening , the cordon around parliament was lifted and police said there was no longer any threat to the public in the area .	but by late in the evening , the blockade around parliament was lifted and police said there was no longer any threat to the public in the area .
city	government	NN	city	government	3	3	for example , city buildings can no longer water lawns , plants and trees more than two days a week .	for example , government buildings can no longer water lawns , plants and trees more than two days a week .
object	shape	NN	object	shape	5	5	it picked up a round object in the middle of his chest .	it picked up a round shape in the middle of his chest .
serve	help	VBP	serve	help	13	13	fourteen repurposed parking meters across the city will collect change for nonprofits that serve the homeless .	fourteen repurposed parking meters across the city will collect change for nonprofits that help the homeless .
proposition	vote	NN	proposition	vote	5	5	even though the california labeling proposition lost , cooper said the effort helped raise awareness on the issue .	even though the california labeling vote lost , cooper said the effort helped raise awareness on the issue .
homestead	property	NN	homestead	property	6	6	adams searched his family 's old homestead for artifacts well into the 1960s .	adams searched his family 's old property for artifacts well into the 1960s .
complex	area	NN	complex	area	2	2	the legislative complex consists of several buildings , known as blocks .	the legislative area consists of several buildings , known as blocks .
blow	waste	VBP	blow	waste	3	3	many pro athletes blow their multimillion-dollar salaries .	many pro athletes waste their multimillion-dollar salaries .
agonizing	difficult	JJ	agonizing	difficult	2	2	over five agonizing months , his parents took him to 12 doctors at six hospitals in the philadelphia area .	over five difficult months , his parents took him to 12 doctors at six hospitals in the philadelphia area .
propulsion	rocket	NN	propulsion	rocket	10	10	in 2007 , during a test of the spaceship 's propulsion system , an explosion at the mojave desert airport killed three workers and injured three others .	in 2007 , during a test of the spaceship 's rocket system , an explosion at the mojave desert airport killed three workers and injured three others .
find	guide	VB	find	guide	12	12	basketball superstar lebron james used roosevelt 's speech as a map to find his way back home to ohio .	basketball superstar lebron james used roosevelt 's speech as a map to guide his way back home to ohio .
malaise	slump	NN	malaise	slump	16	16	despite all the hoopla , hello kitty may be entering her fifth decade in a midlife malaise .	despite all the hoopla , hello kitty may be entering her fifth decade in a midlife slump .
sensation	craze	NN	sensation	craze	7	7	sanrio is searching for the next cute sensation .	sanrio is searching for the next cute craze .
clout	power	NN	clout	power	5	5	all second-term presidents lose considerable clout at this mark .	all second-term presidents lose considerable power at this mark .
head	fly	VB	head	fly	5	5	next week , obama will head to asia and australia for meetings .	next week , obama will fly to asia and australia for meetings .
become	be	VB	become	be	2	2	obama will become '' yesterday 's news '' as soon as the 2016 presidential race begins , said new hampshire state senator lou d ' allesandro .	obama will be '' yesterday 's news '' as soon as the 2016 presidential race begins , said new hampshire state senator lou d ' allesandro .
have	keep	VB	have	keep	10	10	it was worth it , in the end , to have the home he built and to be able to dream about his great-grandchildren someday staring up at the trees he 'd planted .	it was worth it , in the end , to keep the home he built and to be able to dream about his great-grandchildren someday staring up at the trees he 'd planted .
idyllic	picturesque	JJ	idyllic	picturesque	9	9	lake mission viejo is southern california at its most idyllic and , when it comes to water , its most extravagant .	lake mission viejo is southern california at its most picturesque and , when it comes to water , its most extravagant .
devaluation	business	NN	devaluation	business	17	17	however , in the wall street journal piece , swift had important points to make about the devaluation of music .	however , in the wall street journal piece , swift had important points to make about the business of music .
valid	correct	JJ	valid	correct	26	26	but swift 's larger point -- that if they can afford to , musicians should n't cheapen their music by just giving it away -- is valid .	but swift 's larger point -- that if they can afford to , musicians should n't cheapen their music by just giving it away -- is correct .
dilemma	problem	NN	dilemma	problem	9	9	to stream or not to stream is a thorny dilemma for fans , too .	to stream or not to stream is a thorny problem for fans , too .
pointed	sharp	JJ	pointed	sharp	9	9	philae was supposed to send out two harpoons -- pointed metal spears -- to attach itself to the comet .	philae was supposed to send out two harpoons -- sharp metal spears -- to attach itself to the comet .
deployment	landing	NN	deployment	landing	13	13	scientists had warned that there was a very real chance that the philae deployment would fail .	scientists had warned that there was a very real chance that the philae landing would fail .
kind	level	NN	kind	level	19	19	china will '' have to up their game by quite a bit to meet their target '' for that kind of alternative power generation , lieberthal said .	china will '' have to up their game by quite a bit to meet their target '' for that level of alternative power generation , lieberthal said .
emitter	producer	NN	emitter	producer	9	9	china is now by far the world 's largest emitter of greenhouse gases .	china is now by far the world 's largest producer of greenhouse gases .
biology	science	NN	biology	science	10	10	that 's where the discovery was made by a college biology professor on a walk .	that 's where the discovery was made by a college science professor on a walk .
transaction	process	NN	transaction	process	5	5	it all begins with a transaction that 's a little more complicated than your typical home sale .	it all begins with a process that 's a little more complicated than your typical home sale .
unprotected	free	JJ	unprotected	free	9	9	the pittsburgh zoo 's elephant care program involves both unprotected and protected contact , she said .	the pittsburgh zoo 's elephant care program involves both free and protected contact , she said .
action	law	NN	action	law	12	12	the judge wrote that combating terror required unquestioning obedience to congress ' action .	the judge wrote that combating terror required unquestioning obedience to congress ' law .
upend	change	VB	upend	change	14	14	the discovery of a royal burial under the temple of the feathered serpent might upend everything known about the city .	the discovery of a royal burial under the temple of the feathered serpent might change everything known about the city .
lead	example	NN	lead	example	9	9	meanwhile , some other states are following california 's lead .	meanwhile , some other states are following california 's example .
specify	say	VB	specify	say	5	5	the 2010 law did not specify what size or type of cage is acceptable , which has led to confusion .	the 2010 law did not say what size or type of cage is acceptable , which has led to confusion .
jumpsuit	uniform	NN	jumpsuit	uniform	11	11	on a recent tuesday , though , williams traded his prison jumpsuit for a gray suit , lavender tie and black shoes .	on a recent tuesday , though , williams traded his prison uniform for a gray suit , lavender tie and black shoes .
competitive	successful	JJ	competitive	successful	19	19	they have created programs to provide the next generation of farmers with the skills and land needed to be competitive .	they have created programs to provide the next generation of farmers with the skills and land needed to be successful .
prospective	new	JJ	prospective	new	11	11	missouri , maryland and virginia are among the states that help prospective farmers find available land .	missouri , maryland and virginia are among the states that help new farmers find available land .
matriarch	mother	NN	matriarch	mother	7	7	a great-grandmother , daniels has been a matriarch , therapist , chef and friend to demonstrators who traveled to ferguson from around the country .	a great-grandmother , daniels has been a mother , therapist , chef and friend to demonstrators who traveled to ferguson from around the country .
lab	class	NN	lab	class	9	9	students in the flipped model stayed interested in the lab and got better grades , the study found .	students in the flipped model stayed interested in the class and got better grades , the study found .
lucrative	wealthy	JJ	lucrative	wealthy	2	2	bakken 's lucrative trucking business includes a mix of large and established companies and small and independent operators .	bakken 's wealthy trucking business includes a mix of large and established companies and small and independent operators .
quell	defeat	VB	quell	defeat	19	19	the best way to keep more ebola cases from checking in at the nearest holiday inn is to help quell the outbreak at its source .	the best way to keep more ebola cases from checking in at the nearest holiday inn is to help defeat the outbreak at its source .
advent	invention	NN	advent	invention	15	15	los angeles -- personal transportation is on the cusp of its greatest transformation since the advent of the internal combustion engine .	los angeles -- personal transportation is on the cusp of its greatest transformation since the invention of the internal combustion engine .
status	wealth	NN	status	wealth	11	11	for a century , cars have been symbols of freedom and status .	for a century , cars have been symbols of freedom and wealth .
evolve	turn	VB	evolve	turn	8	8	buying sexy , fast cars for garages could evolve into buying seat-miles in appliance-like pods , piloted by robots , parked in public stalls .	buying sexy , fast cars for garages could turn into buying seat-miles in appliance-like pods , piloted by robots , parked in public stalls .
jazz	music	NN	jazz	music	10	10	in her home , though , there was also american jazz and thanksgiving celebrations .	in her home , though , there was also american music and thanksgiving celebrations .
dictator	leader	NN	dictator	leader	2	2	after the dictator josef stalin came to power , foreigners were no longer trusted .	after the leader josef stalin came to power , foreigners were no longer trusted .
desal	desalination	NN	desal	desalination	17	17	the remaining 80 percent -- including tiny zooplankton and fish eggs -- will be sucked into the desal plant and killed .	the remaining 80 percent -- including tiny zooplankton and fish eggs -- will be sucked into the desalination plant and killed .
fighting	trouble	NN	fighting	trouble	8	8	the school has managed to survive decades of fighting , a feat that speaks to the toughness of baghdad 's residents through war after war .	the school has managed to survive decades of trouble , a feat that speaks to the toughness of baghdad 's residents through war after war .
discipline	skill	NN	discipline	skill	18	18	black-and-white footage of a 1977 school production of '' the nutcracker '' shows a relatively high level of discipline , with the children dancing in professional-level costumes .	black-and-white footage of a 1977 school production of '' the nutcracker '' shows a relatively high level of skill , with the children dancing in professional-level costumes .
criminology	crime	NN	criminology	crime	10	10	ida dupont is a pace university sociology professor specializing in criminology .	ida dupont is a pace university sociology professor specializing in crime .
glimmer	sign	NN	glimmer	sign	14	14	the storm that hit northern california last weekend gave state water officials the first glimmer of hope in more than a year .	the storm that hit northern california last weekend gave state water officials the first sign of hope in more than a year .
debris	mud	NN	debris	mud	4	4	glendora suffered a massive debris flow in 1969 that destroyed 30 homes .	glendora suffered a massive mud flow in 1969 that destroyed 30 homes .
rebut	contradict	VB	rebut	contradict	10	10	it cites cia cables , emails and interview transcripts to rebut the central justification for torture -- that it thwarted terror plots and saved american lives .	it cites cia cables , emails and interview transcripts to contradict the central justification for torture -- that it thwarted terror plots and saved american lives .
plot	attack	NN	plot	attack	13	13	early on , with cia officials believing he had information on another terror plot , zubaydah was left isolated for 47 days without questioning , the report says .	early on , with cia officials believing he had information on another terror attack , zubaydah was left isolated for 47 days without questioning , the report says .
chick	baby	NN	chick	baby	16	16	the mother began flying up to 150 miles a day in search of food for her chick .	the mother began flying up to 150 miles a day in search of food for her baby .
contain	have	VB	contain	have	8	8	cafeteria lunches sold in elementary schools ca n't contain more than 640 milligrams -lrb- mg -rrb- of sodium .	cafeteria lunches sold in elementary schools ca n't have more than 640 milligrams -lrb- mg -rrb- of sodium .
contradict	counter	VB	contradict	counter	3	3	these findings may contradict the idea that much of the planet 's water reserves were held only in ice or underground , and made only brief appearances on the surface .	these findings may counter the idea that much of the planet 's water reserves were held only in ice or underground , and made only brief appearances on the surface .
survive	last	VB	survive	last	9	9	after all , if these lakes were able to survive for so long , then mars must have had a much thicker atmosphere .	after all , if these lakes were able to last for so long , then mars must have had a much thicker atmosphere .
activist	protester	NN	activist	protester	4	4	then , singer and activist pete seeger helped make '' we shall overcome '' an important song of the 1960s civil rights movement .	then , singer and protester pete seeger helped make '' we shall overcome '' an important song of the 1960s civil rights movement .
punishment	damage	NN	punishment	damage	9	9	those statues had to be restored after decades of punishment from those same new england winds , leet said .	those statues had to be restored after decades of damage from those same new england winds , leet said .
drastically	severely	RB	drastically	severely	21	21	it was once found throughout the island , but extensive hunting from the mid-19th century onward caused its population to drop drastically .	it was once found throughout the island , but extensive hunting from the mid-19th century onward caused its population to drop severely .
peak	top	NN	peak	top	10	10	it took currie 12 years of crossbreeding to reach the peak of the pepper world .	it took currie 12 years of crossbreeding to reach the top of the pepper world .
discourse	conversation	NN	discourse	conversation	16	16	stomping through one of his pepper fields outside fort mill , currie carries on a nonstop discourse about each hybrid planted among long rows of peppers .	stomping through one of his pepper fields outside fort mill , currie carries on a nonstop conversation about each hybrid planted among long rows of peppers .
shapely	curvy	JJ	shapely	curvy	3	3	the peppers are shapely and alluring : orange , red and green spheres glowing in the late autumn sunshine .	the peppers are curvy and alluring : orange , red and green spheres glowing in the late autumn sunshine .
just	even	RB	just	even	6	6	in fact , he said , just the reaper fumes and residue on his lab gloves were too hot for him .	in fact , he said , even the reaper fumes and residue on his lab gloves were too hot for him .
roughly	about	RB	roughly	about	6	6	last year , six teams of roughly 10 students each participated .	last year , six teams of about 10 students each participated .
upbeat	positive	JJ	upbeat	positive	8	8	rio de janeiro city officials offer a more upbeat picture of events in favela do metro .	rio de janeiro city officials offer a more positive picture of events in favela do metro .
pace	track	NN	pace	track	16	16	current prices are now $ 46 below last year 's average , putting the country on pace for a $ 36 billion loss .	current prices are now $ 46 below last year 's average , putting the country on track for a $ 36 billion loss .
intrusion	attack	NN	intrusion	attack	16	16	the obama administration has stopped short of saying openly that north korea was involved in the intrusion .	the obama administration has stopped short of saying openly that north korea was involved in the attack .
skilled	top	JJ	skilled	top	12	12	however , experts believe the country does have a small group of skilled hackers working for it .	however , experts believe the country does have a small group of top hackers working for it .
sight	snack	NN	sight	snack	9	9	kabul , afghanistan -- hot dogs are a rare sight in afghanistan .	kabul , afghanistan -- hot dogs are a rare snack in afghanistan .
country	government	NN	country	government	17	17	noori 's family fled afghanistan when the strict religious group , the taliban , took over the country in the 1990s .	noori 's family fled afghanistan when the strict religious group , the taliban , took over the government in the 1990s .
compete	play	VB	compete	play	5	5	someday , she hopes to compete professionally .	someday , she hopes to play professionally .
alter	turn	VBP	alter	turn	1	1	they alter land into a sponge that soaks up water .	they turn land into a sponge that soaks up water .
insist	say	VBP	insist	say	2	2	navajo leaders insist the plant and coal mine are important .	navajo leaders say the plant and coal mine are important .
ray	stingray	NN	ray	stingray	3	3	he saw a ray jump out of the water a few feet from him .	he saw a stingray jump out of the water a few feet from him .
excruciating	terrible	JJ	excruciating	terrible	3	3	his pain was excruciating , he said , and all he could think about was whether he would be able to surf again .	his pain was terrible , he said , and all he could think about was whether he would be able to surf again .
reflect	match	VB	reflect	match	19	19	still , state officials say they are not encouraging people to go faster -- just changing the limits to reflect the speeds people already drive .	still , state officials say they are not encouraging people to go faster -- just changing the limits to match the speeds people already drive .
nondescript	unimpressive	JJ	nondescript	unimpressive	8	8	decades would pass before scientists realized that the nondescript bronze -- now called the antikythera mechanism -- was the biggest treasure of all .	decades would pass before scientists realized that the unimpressive bronze -- now called the antikythera mechanism -- was the biggest treasure of all .
galley	ship	NN	galley	ship	10	10	greek sponge divers stumbled across the wreck of the roman galley in 1900 .	greek sponge divers stumbled across the wreck of the roman ship in 1900 .
stressful	hard	JJ	stressful	hard	5	5	traveling with children can be stressful for anyone .	traveling with children can be hard for anyone .
preview	practice	NN	preview	practice	6	6	the mood was different on the preview day , she said .	the mood was different on the practice day , she said .
mood	airport	NN	mood	airport	1	1	the mood was different on the practice day , she said .	the airport was different on the practice day , she said .
circumstance	ceremony	NN	circumstance	ceremony	10	10	princess anne was the reason for all the pomp and circumstance .	princess anne was the reason for all the pomp and ceremony .
exceptional	enormous	JJ	exceptional	enormous	4	4	the chinese government took exceptional steps to clear the air .	the chinese government took enormous steps to clear the air .
meager	unsuccessful	JJ	meager	unsuccessful	14	14	so far , obama 's efforts to reduce the cost of college have been meager .	so far , obama 's efforts to reduce the cost of college have been unsuccessful .
strategy	idea	NN	strategy	idea	1	1	the strategy of using a city as leverage is n't new .	the idea of using a city as leverage is n't new .
tactic	idea	NN	tactic	idea	1	1	the tactic of using a city as leverage is n't new .	the idea of using a city as leverage is n't new .
driver	cause	NN	driver	cause	8	8	poverty , of course , is the great driver of homelessness .	poverty , of course , is the great cause of homelessness .
convene	assemble	VB	convene	assemble	6	6	the argentine justice system will now convene a committee of experts to find a sanctuary or another home for sandra , as long as the aging orangutan is healthy enough to travel elsewhere .	the argentine justice system will now assemble a committee of experts to find a sanctuary or another home for sandra , as long as the aging orangutan is healthy enough to travel elsewhere .
allure	lure	NN	allure	lure	4	4	then there is the allure of playing ball in college .	then there is the lure of playing ball in college .
glory	dream	NN	glory	dream	4	4	then there is the glory of playing basketball in college .	then there is the dream of playing basketball in college .
pitch	section	NN	pitch	section	5	5	jorgeson fell on the first pitch wednesday , slowing down their finish .	jorgeson fell on the first section wednesday , slowing down their finish .
conclusion	summit	NN	conclusion	summit	2	2	wednesday 's conclusion is just the latest memorable experience for tommy caldwell .	wednesday 's summit is just the latest memorable experience for tommy caldwell .
procure	locate	VB	procure	locate	8	8	some items have been hard for gordon to procure .	some items have been hard for gordon to locate .
procure	collect	VB	procure	collect	8	8	some items have been hard for gordon to procure .	some items have been hard for gordon to collect .
locate	collect	VB	locate	collect	8	8	some items have been hard for gordon to locate .	some items have been hard for gordon to collect .
mass	ceremony	NN	mass	ceremony	13	13	pope francis did not specify the date or place for serra 's canonization mass .	pope francis did not specify the date or place for serra 's canonization ceremony .
ailment	problem	NN	ailment	problem	6	6	eye disease is the most common ailment in captive rockfish , perhaps because they evolved to live under high pressure in deep water , lahner said .	eye disease is the most common problem in captive rockfish , perhaps because they evolved to live under high pressure in deep water , lahner said .
tectonic	major	JJ	tectonic	major	17	17	at los angeles unified school district , the nation 's second largest , the shift has been tectonic .	at los angeles unified school district , the nation 's second largest , the shift has been major .
philosophy	idea	NN	philosophy	idea	4	4	agency leaders say the philosophy is simple : treat the school like a hollywood client .	agency leaders say the idea is simple : treat the school like a hollywood client .
decamp	head	VBP	decamp	head	2	2	then students decamp to agents ' offices for one-on-one rap sessions .	then students head to agents ' offices for one-on-one rap sessions .
drive	coax	VB	drive	coax	5	5	hunters might use drones to drive wildlife to them , young said .	hunters might use drones to coax wildlife to them , young said .
doctrine	idea	NN	doctrine	idea	5	5	in keeping with the fair-chase doctrine , illinois already outlaws such conduct as using ferrets to frighten or drive mammals from their dens or hiding places ; having dogs pursue , bother or kill deer ; using lights connected to a vehicle to hunt at night ; baiting deer and turkey ; and shooting most birds when they are not flying .	in keeping with the fair-chase idea , illinois already outlaws such conduct as using ferrets to frighten or drive mammals from their dens or hiding places ; having dogs pursue , bother or kill deer ; using lights connected to a vehicle to hunt at night ; baiting deer and turkey ; and shooting most birds when they are not flying .
include	are	VBP	include	be	2	2	other symptoms include fever , red eyes and a runny nose .	other symptoms are fever , red eyes and a runny nose .
tactic	technique	NN	tactic	technique	16	16	inspired by their courage , demonstrators across the south adopted their '' jail not bail '' tactic and filled jail cells .	inspired by their courage , demonstrators across the south adopted their '' jail not bail '' technique and filled jail cells .
frustrated	angry	JJ	frustrated	angry	14	14	siso said the lines are getting longer and tougher , as people get more frustrated .	siso said the lines are getting longer and tougher , as people get more angry .
unmistakably	clearly	RB	unmistakably	clearly	14	14	researchers have done thousands of studies on gaming since the 1980s , often with unmistakably negative results .	researchers have done thousands of studies on gaming since the 1980s , often with clearly negative results .
book	novel	NN	book	novel	2	2	the new book also will be available as an e-book .	the new novel also will be available as an e-book .
parched	dry	JJ	parched	dry	1	1	a parched january is partly to blame .	a dry january is partly to blame .
copious	heavy	JJ	copious	heavy	16	16	but the snowpack is also skimpy because warm storms that hit the state in december dumped copious amounts of rain , not snow .	but the snowpack is also skimpy because warm storms that hit the state in december dumped heavy amounts of rain , not snow .
extensive	much	JJ	extensive	much	9	9	the damage to the anchor 's credibility proved too extensive to keep his job .	the damage to the anchor 's credibility proved too much to keep his job .
database	listing	NN	database	listing	5	5	it offers a global online database of dna labels .	it offers a global online listing of dna labels .
limit	stop	VB	limit	stop	6	6	it will not be easy to limit pollution from china , said scientist owen cooper .	it will not be easy to stop pollution from china , said scientist owen cooper .
batch	order	NN	batch	order	8	8	fifty years ago , colombia shipped its first batch of fresh-cut flowers to miami .	fifty years ago , colombia shipped its first order of fresh-cut flowers to miami .
sprawling	huge	JJ	sprawling	huge	2	2	volkswagen 's sprawling auto factory in chattanooga , tennessee , is a good example .	volkswagen 's huge auto factory in chattanooga , tennessee , is a good example .
analyst	expert	NN	analyst	expert	4	4	todd harrison is an analyst at the center for strategic and budgetary assessments .	todd harrison is an expert at the center for strategic and budgetary assessments .
ultimately	actually	RB	ultimately	actually	8	8	he thinks the new stealth bomber program would ultimately cost $ 90 billion .	he thinks the new stealth bomber program would actually cost $ 90 billion .
shore	sand	NN	shore	sand	4	4	waves crash against the shore .	waves crash against the sand .
verdant	green	JJ	verdant	green	3	3	hauaino remembers his verdant , pre-volcano beach town on the east end of the island of hawaii as '' just one of the beautifulest places on the island .	hauaino remembers his green , pre-volcano beach town on the east end of the island of hawaii as '' just one of the beautifulest places on the island .
specimen	example	NN	specimen	example	6	6	it is now a perfect geological specimen of pahoehoe .	it is now a perfect geological example of pahoehoe .
dissent	protest	NN	dissent	protest	8	8	mutanabbi street has always been a hotbed of dissent .	mutanabbi street has always been a hotbed of protest .
long	always	RB	long	always	3	3	mutanabbi street has long been a place where protests are held .	mutanabbi street has always been a place where protests are held .
ruefully	sadly	RB	ruefully	sadly	4	4	nadawi exclaimed , laughing ruefully .	nadawi exclaimed , laughing sadly .
practical	simple	JJ	practical	simple	11	11	until now , most research on popcorn has been focused on practical questions .	until now , most research on popcorn has been focused on simple questions .
burden	hardship	NN	burden	hardship	17	17	that has made their search for work all the more urgent , and their failure a greater burden .	that has made their search for work all the more urgent , and their failure a greater hardship .
access	connection	NN	access	connection	8	8	sometimes they lack a working cellphone or internet access .	sometimes they lack a working cellphone or internet connection .
drastic	extreme	JJ	drastic	extreme	27	27	other cities -- including des moines , iowa ; montville , new jersey ; lincoln , nebraska ; and columbia city , indiana -- have taken less drastic measures .	other cities -- including des moines , iowa ; montville , new jersey ; lincoln , nebraska ; and columbia city , indiana -- have taken less extreme measures .
syndrome	condition	NN	syndrome	condition	12	12	lili died at the age of 15 from medical complications of her syndrome .	lili died at the age of 15 from medical complications of her condition .
audible	loud	JJ	audible	loud	8	8	when the lunch bell rang , there was audible disappointment among those who were separated .	when the lunch bell rang , there was loud disappointment among those who were separated .
unruly	rowdy	JJ	unruly	rowdy	21	21	twice in the previous two years , the police have been called to edina 's cake eater classic to calm down unruly parents .	twice in the previous two years , the police have been called to edina 's cake eater classic to calm down rowdy parents .
recover	uncover	VB	recover	uncover	8	8	using a shovel and ax , he helped recover the body .	using a shovel and ax , he helped uncover the body .
harvest	grow	VB	harvest	grow	4	4	it is expected to harvest about 66 million pounds of avocados this year .	it is expected to grow about 66 million pounds of avocados this year .
